
Video: Explore the CISSP security domains, Part 1
Welcome back! You might remember from course one that there are eight security domains, or categories, identified by CISSP. Security teams use them to organize daily tasks and identify gaps in security that could cause negative consequences for an organization, and to establish their security posture. Security posture refers to an organization's ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change.
In this video, we'll discuss the focus of the first four domains: security and risk management, asset security, security architecture and engineering, and communication and network security.
The first domain is security and risk management. There are several areas of focus for this domain: defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and legal regulations. Let's discuss each area of focus in more detail.
By defining security goals and objectives, organizations can reduce risks to critical assets and data like PII, or personally identifiable information. Risk mitigation means having the right procedures and rules in place to quickly reduce the impact of a risk like a breach. Compliance is the primary method used to develop an organization's internal security policies, regulatory requirements, and independent standards. Business continuity relates to an organization's ability to maintain their everyday productivity by establishing risk disaster recovery plans.
And finally, while laws related to security and risk management are different worldwide, the overall goals are similar. As a security professional, this means following rules and expectations for ethical behavior to minimize negligence, abuse, or fraud.
The next domain is asset security. The asset security domain is focused on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data. This means that assets such as PII or SPII should be securely handled and protected, whether stored on a computer, transferred over a network like the internet, or even physically collected. Organizations also need to have policies and procedures that ensure data is properly stored, maintained, retained, and destroyed. Knowing what data you have and who has access to it is necessary for having a strong security posture that mitigates risk to critical assets and data.
Previously, we provided a few examples that touched on the disposal of data. For example, an organization might have you, as a security analyst, oversee the destruction of hard drives to make sure that they're properly disposed of. This ensures that private data stored on those drives can't be accessed by threat actors.
The third domain is security architecture and engineering. This domain is focused on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place to protect an organization's assets and data. One of the core concepts of secure design architecture is shared responsibility. Shared responsibility means that all individuals within an organization take an active role in lowering risk and maintaining both physical and virtual security. By having policies that encourage users to recognize and report security concerns, many issues can be handled quickly and effectively.
The fourth domain is communication and network security, which is mainly focused on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. Secure networks keep an organization's data and communications safe whether on-site, or in the cloud, or when connecting to services remotely.
For example, employees working remotely in public spaces need to be protected from vulnerabilities that can occur when they use insecure bluetooth connections or public wifi hotspots. By having security team members remove access to those types of communication channels at the organizational level, employees may be discouraged from practicing insecure behavior that could be exploited by threat actors.
Now that we've reviewed the focus of our first four domains, let's discuss the last four domains.

Video: Explore the CISSP security domains, Part 2
In this video, we'll cover the last four domains: identity and access management, security assessment and testing, security operations, and software development security.
The fifth domain is identity and access management, or IAM. And it's focused on access and authorization to keep data secure by making sure users follow established policies to control and manage assets. As an entry-level analyst, it's essential to keep an organization's systems and data as secure as possible by ensuring user access is limited to what employees need. Basically, the goal of IAM is to reduce the overall risk to systems and data.
For example, if everyone at a company is using the same administrator login, there is no way to track who has access to what data. In the event of a breach, separating valid user activity from the threat actor would be impossible.
There are four main components to IAM. Identification is when a user verifies who they are by providing a user name, an access card, or biometric data such as a fingerprint. Authentication is the verification process to prove a person's identity, such as entering a password or PIN. Authorization takes place after a user's identity has been confirmed and relates to their level of access, which depends on the role in the organization. Accountability refers to monitoring and recording user actions, like login attempts, to prove systems and data are used properly.
The sixth security domain is security assessment and testing. This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security control testing can help an organization identify new and better ways to mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This involves examining organizational goals and objectives, and evaluating if the controls being used actually achieve those goals. Collecting and analyzing security data regularly also helps prevent threats and risks to the organization.
Analysts might use security control testing evaluations and security assessment reports to improve existing controls or implement new controls. An example of implementing a new control could be requiring the use of multi-factor authentication to better protect the organization from potential threats and risks.
Next, let's discuss security operations. The security operations domain is focused on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures. Investigations begin once a security incident has been identified. This process requires a heightened sense of urgency in order to minimize potential risks to the organization. If there is an active attack, mitigating the attack and preventing it from escalating further is essential for ensuring that private information is protected from threat actors.
Once the threat has been neutralized, the collection of digital and physical evidence to conduct a forensic investigation will begin. A digital forensic investigation must take place to identify when, how, and why the breach occurred. This helps security teams determine areas for improvement and preventative measures that can be taken to mitigate future attacks.
The eighth and final security domain is software development security. This domain focuses on using secure coding practices. As you may remember, secure coding practices are recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services. The software development lifecycle is an efficient process used by teams to quickly build software products and features. In this process, security is an additional step. By ensuring that each phase of the software development lifecycle undergoes security reviews, security can be fully integrated into the software product.
For example, performing a secure design review during the design phase, secure code reviews during the development and testing phases, and penetration testing during the deployment and implementation phase ensures that security is embedded into the software product at every step. This keeps software secure and sensitive data protected, and mitigates unnecessary risk to an organization.
Being familiar with these domains can help you better understand how they're used to improve the overall security of an organization and the critical role security teams play. Next, we'll discuss security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities, including ransomware, and introduce you to the three layers of the web.


Text Content: Security domains cybersecurity analysts need to know
As an analyst, you can explore various areas of cybersecurity that interest you. One way to explore those areas is by understanding different security domains and how they’re used to organize the work of security professionals. In this reading you will learn more about CISSP’s eight security domains and how they relate to the work you’ll do as a security analyst.

Graphic of the eight icons that represent the security domains from the CISSP
Domain one: Security and risk management
All organizations must develop their security posture. Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. Elements of the security and risk management domain that impact an organization's security posture include:

Security goals and objectives

Risk mitigation processes

Compliance

Business continuity plans

Legal regulations

Professional and organizational ethics

Information security, or InfoSec, is also related to this domain and refers to a set of processes established to secure information. An organization may use playbooks and implement training as a part of their security and risk management program, based on their needs and perceived risk. There are many InfoSec design processes, such as:

Incident response

Vulnerability management

Application security

Cloud security

Infrastructure security

As an example, a security team may need to alter how personally identifiable information (PII) is treated in order to adhere to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Domain two: Asset security
Asset security involves managing the cybersecurity processes of organizational assets, including the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of physical and virtual data. Because the loss or theft of assets can expose an organization and increase the level of risk, keeping track of assets and the data they hold is essential. Conducting a security impact analysis, establishing a recovery plan, and managing data exposure will depend on the level of risk associated with each asset. Security analysts may need to store, maintain, and retain data by creating backups to ensure they are able to restore the environment if a security incident places the organization’s data at risk.

Domain three: Security architecture and engineering
This domain focuses on managing data security. Ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place helps protect an organization’s assets and data. Security architects and engineers create these processes.

One important aspect of this domain is the concept of shared responsibility. Shared responsibility means all individuals involved take an active role in lowering risk during the design of a security system. Additional design principles related to this domain, which are discussed later in the program, include:

Threat modeling

Least privilege

Defense in depth

Fail securely

Separation of duties

Keep it simple

Zero trust

Trust but verify

An example of managing data is the use of a security information and event management (SIEM) tool to monitor for flags related to unusual login or user activity that could indicate a threat actor is attempting to access private data.

Domain four: Communication and network security
This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. This includes on-site, remote, and cloud communications.

Organizations with remote, hybrid, and on-site work environments must ensure data remains secure, but managing external connections to make certain that remote workers are securely accessing an organization’s networks is a challenge. Designing network security controls—such as restricted network access—can help protect users and ensure an organization’s network remains secure when employees travel or work outside of the main office.

Domain five: Identity and access management
The identity and access management (IAM) domain focuses on keeping data secure. It does this by ensuring user identities are trusted and authenticated and that access to physical and logical assets is authorized. This helps prevent unauthorized users, while allowing authorized users to perform their tasks.

Essentially, IAM uses what is referred to as the principle of least privilege, which is the concept of granting only the minimal access and authorization required to complete a task. As an example, a cybersecurity analyst might be asked to ensure that customer service representatives can only view the private data of a customer, such as their phone number, while working to resolve the customer's issue; then remove access when the customer's issue is resolved.

Domain six: Security assessment and testing
The security assessment and testing domain focuses on identifying and mitigating risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security assessments help organizations determine whether their internal systems are secure or at risk. Organizations might employ penetration testers, often referred to as “pen testers,” to find vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a threat actor.

This domain suggests that organizations conduct security control testing, as well as collect and analyze data. Additionally, it emphasizes the importance of conducting security audits to monitor for and reduce the probability of a data breach. To contribute to these types of tasks, cybersecurity professionals may be tasked with auditing user permissions to validate that users have the correct levels of access to internal systems.

Domain seven: Security operations
The security operations domain focuses on the investigation of a potential data breach and the implementation of preventative measures after a security incident has occurred. This includes using strategies, processes, and tools such as:

Training and awareness

Reporting and documentation

Intrusion detection and prevention

SIEM tools

Log management

Incident management

Playbooks

Post-breach forensics

Reflecting on lessons learned

The cybersecurity professionals involved in this domain work as a team to manage, prevent, and investigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. These individuals are trained to handle active attacks, such as large amounts of data being accessed from an organization's internal network, outside of normal working hours. Once a threat is identified, the team works diligently to keep private data and information safe from threat actors.

Domain eight: Software development security
The software development security domain is focused on using secure programming practices and guidelines to create secure applications. Having secure applications helps deliver secure and reliable services, which helps protect organizations and their users.

Security must be incorporated into each element of the software development life cycle, from design and development to testing and release. To achieve security, the software development process must have security in mind at each step. Security cannot be an afterthought.

Performing application security tests can help ensure vulnerabilities are identified and mitigated accordingly. Having a system in place to test the programming conventions, software executables, and security measures embedded in the software is necessary. Having quality assurance and pen tester professionals ensure the software has met security and performance standards is also an essential part of the software development process. For example, an entry-level analyst working for a pharmaceutical company might be asked to make sure encryption is properly configured for a new medical device that will store private patient data.

Key takeaways
In this reading, you learned more about the focus areas of the eight CISSP security domains. In addition, you learned about InfoSec and the principle of least privilege. Being familiar with these security domains and related concepts will help you gain insight into the field of cybersecurity.


Video: Threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
As an entry-level security analyst, one of your many roles will be to handle an organization's digital and physical assets. As a reminder, an asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization. During their lifespan, organizations acquire all types of assets, including physical office spaces, computers, customers' PII, intellectual property, such as patents or copyrighted data, and so much more. Unfortunately, organizations operate in an environment that presents multiple security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to their assets. Let's review what threats, risks, and vulnerabilities are and discuss some common examples of each.
A threat is any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets. One example of a threat is a social engineering attack. Social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables. Malicious links in email messages that look like they're from legitimate companies or people is one method of social engineering known as phishing. As a reminder, phishing is a technique that is used to acquire sensitive data, such as user names, passwords, or banking information.
Risks are different from threats. A risk is anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset. Think of a risk as the likelihood of a threat occurring. An example of a risk to an organization might be the lack of backup protocols for making sure its stored information can be recovered in the event of an accident or security incident. Organizations tend to rate risks at different levels: low, medium, and high, depending on possible threats and the value of an asset.
A low-risk asset is information that would not harm the organization's reputation or ongoing operations, and would not cause financial damage if compromised. This includes public information such as website content, or published research data.
A medium-risk asset might include information that's not available to the public and may cause some damage to the organization's finances, reputation, or ongoing operations. For example, the early release of a company's quarterly earnings could impact the value of their stock.
A high-risk asset is any information protected by regulations or laws, which if compromised, would have a severe negative impact on an organization's finances, ongoing operations, or reputation. This could include leaked assets with SPII, PII, or intellectual property.
Now, let's discuss vulnerabilities. A vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat. And it's worth noting that both a vulnerability and threat must be present for there to be a risk. Examples of vulnerabilities include: an outdated firewall, software, or application; weak passwords; or unprotected confidential data. People can also be considered a vulnerability. People's actions can significantly affect an organization's internal network. Whether it's a client, external vendor, or employee, maintaining security must be a united effort.
So entry-level analysts need to educate and empower people to be more security conscious. For example, educating people on how to identify a phishing email is a great starting point. Using access cards to grant employee access to physical spaces while restricting outside visitors is another good security measure. Organizations must continually improve their efforts when it comes to identifying and mitigating vulnerabilities to minimize threats and risks. Entry-level analysts can support this goal by encouraging employees to report suspicious activity and actively monitoring and documenting employees' access to critical assets.
Now that you're familiar with some of the threats, risks, and vulnerabilities analysts frequently encounter, coming up, we'll discuss how they impact business operations.

Video: Key impacts of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
In this video, we'll discuss an expensive type of malware called ransomware. Then we'll cover three key impacts of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities on organizational operations.
Ransomware is a malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization's data then demand payment to restore access. Once ransomware is deployed by an attacker, it can freeze network systems, leave devices unusable, and encrypt, or lock confidential data, making devices inaccessible. The threat actor then demands a ransom before providing a decryption key to allow organizations to return to their normal business operations. Think of a decryption key as a password provided to regain access to your data. Note that when ransom negotiations occur or data is leaked by threat actors, these events can occur through the dark web.
While many people use search engines to navigate to their social media accounts or to shop online, this is only a small part of what the web really is. The web is actually an interlinked network of online content that's made up of three layers: the surface web, the deep web, and the dark web.
The surface web is the layer that most people use. It contains content that can be accessed using a web browser.
The deep web generally requires authorization to access it. An organization's intranet is an example of the deep web, since it can only be accessed by employees or others who have been granted access.
Lastly, the dark web can only be accessed by using special software. The dark web generally carries a negative connotation since it is the preferred web layer for criminals because of the secrecy that it provides.
Now, let's discuss three key impacts of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. The first impact we'll discuss is financial impact. When an organization's assets are compromised by an attack, such as the use of malware, the financial consequences can be significant for a variety of reasons. These can include interrupted production and services, the cost to correct the issue, and fines if assets are compromised because of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The second impact is identity theft. Organizations must decide whether to store private customer, employee, and outside vendor data, and for how long. Storing any type of sensitive data presents a risk to the organization. Sensitive data can include personally identifiable information, or PII, which can be sold or leaked through the dark web. That's because the dark web provides a sense of secrecy and threat actors may have the ability to sell data there without facing legal consequences.
The last impact we'll discuss is damage to an organization's reputation. A solid customer base supports an organization's mission, vision, and financial goals. An exploited vulnerability can lead customers to seek new business relationships with competitors or create bad press that causes permanent damage to an organization's reputation. The loss of customer data doesn't only affect an organization's reputation and financials, it may also result in legal penalties and fines. Organizations are strongly encouraged to take proper security measures and follow certain protocols to prevent the significant impact of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. By using all the tools in their toolkit, security teams are better prepared to handle an event such as a ransomware attack.
Coming up, we'll cover the NIST risk management framework's seven steps for managing risk.

Video: NIST’s Risk Management Framework
As you might remember from earlier in the program, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, NIST, provides many frameworks that are used by security professionals to manage risks, threats, and vulnerabilities.
In this video, we're going to focus on NIST's Risk Management Framework or RMF. As an entry-level analyst, you may not engage in all of these steps, but it's important to be familiar with this framework. Having a solid foundational understanding of how to mitigate and manage risks can set yourself apart from other candidates as you begin your job search in the field of security.
There are seven steps in the RMF: prepare, categorize, select, implement, assess, authorize, and monitor.
Let's start with Step one, prepare. Prepare refers to activities that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs. As an entry-level analyst, you'll likely use this step to monitor for risks and identify controls that can be used to reduce those risks.
Step two is categorize, which is used to develop risk management processes and tasks. Security professionals then use those processes and develop tasks by thinking about how the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems and information can be impacted by risk. As an entry-level analyst, you'll need to be able to understand how to follow the processes established by your organization to reduce risks to critical assets, such as private customer information.
Step three is select. Select means to choose, customize, and capture documentation of the controls that protect an organization. An example of the select step would be keeping a playbook up-to-date or helping to manage other documentation that allows you and your team to address issues more efficiently.
Step four is to implement security and privacy plans for the organization. Having good plans in place is essential for minimizing the impact of ongoing security risks. For example, if you notice a pattern of employees constantly needing password resets, implementing a change to password requirements may help solve this issue.
Step five is assess. Assess means to determine if established controls are implemented correctly. An organization always wants to operate as efficiently as possible. So it's essential to take the time to analyze whether the implemented protocols, procedures, and controls that are in place are meeting organizational needs. During this step, analysts identify potential weaknesses and determine whether the organization's tools, procedures, controls, and protocols should be changed to better manage potential risks.
Step six is authorize. Authorize means being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist in an organization. As an analyst, the authorization step could involve generating reports, developing plans of action, and establishing project milestones that are aligned to your organization's security goals.
Step seven is monitor. Monitor means to be aware of how systems are operating. Assessing and maintaining technical operations are tasks that analysts complete daily. Part of maintaining a low level of risk for an organization is knowing how the current systems support the organization's security goals. If the systems in place don't meet those goals, changes may be needed.
Although it may not be your job to establish these procedures, you will need to make sure they're working as intended so that risks to the organization itself, and the people it serves, are minimized.


Text Content: Manage common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
Previously, you learned that security involves protecting organizations and people from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Understanding the current threat landscapes gives organizations the ability to create policies and processes designed to help prevent and mitigate these types of security issues. In this reading, you will further explore how to manage risk and some common threat actor tactics and techniques, so you are better prepared to protect organizations and the people they serve when you enter the cybersecurity field.

Risk management
A primary goal of organizations is to protect assets. An asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization. Assets can be digital or physical. Examples of digital assets include the personal information of employees, clients, or vendors, such as:

Social Security Numbers (SSNs), or unique national identification numbers assigned to individuals

Dates of birth

Bank account numbers

Mailing addresses

Examples of physical assets include:

Payment kiosks

Servers

Desktop computers

Office spaces

Some common strategies used to manage risks include:

Acceptance: Accepting a risk to avoid disrupting business continuity

Avoidance: Creating a plan to avoid the risk altogether

Transference: Transferring risk to a third party to manage

Mitigation: Lessening the impact of a known risk

Additionally, organizations implement risk management processes based on widely accepted frameworks to help protect digital and physical assets from various threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Examples of frameworks commonly used in the cybersecurity industry include the National Institute of Standards and Technology Risk Management Framework (
NIST RMF
) and Health Information Trust Alliance (
HITRUST
).

Following are some common types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities you’ll help organizations manage as a security professional.

Today’s most common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
Threats
A threat is any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets. As an entry-level security analyst, your job is to help defend the organization’s assets from inside and outside threats. Therefore, understanding common types of threats is important to an analyst’s daily work. As a reminder, common threats include:

Insider threats: Staff members or vendors abuse their authorized access to obtain data that may harm an organization.

Advanced persistent threats (APTs): A threat actor maintains unauthorized access to a system for an extended period of time.

Risks
A risk is anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. One way to think about this is that a risk is being late to work and threats are traffic, an accident, a flat tire, etc.

There are different factors that can affect the likelihood of a risk to an organization’s assets, including:

External risk: Anything outside the organization that has the potential to harm organizational assets, such as threat actors attempting to gain access to private information

Internal risk: A current or former employee, vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

Legacy systems: Old systems that might not be accounted for or updated, but can still impact assets, such as workstations or old mainframe systems. For example, an organization might have an old vending machine that takes credit card payments or a workstation that is still connected to the legacy accounting system.

Multiparty risk: Outsourcing work to third-party vendors can give them access to intellectual property, such as trade secrets, software designs, and inventions.

Software compliance/licensing: Software that is not updated or in compliance, or patches that are not installed in a timely manner

There are many resources, such as the NIST, that provide lists of
cybersecurity risks
. Additionally, the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) publishes a standard awareness document about the
top 10 most critical security risks
 to web applications, which is updated regularly.

Note: The OWASP’s common attack types list contains three new risks for the years 2017 to 2021: insecure design, software and data integrity failures, and server-side request forgery. This update emphasizes the fact that security is a constantly evolving field. It also demonstrates the importance of staying up to date on current threat actor tactics and techniques, so you can be better prepared to manage these types of risks.

Lists that compare the top 10 most common attack types between 2017 and 2021
Vulnerabilities
A vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat. Therefore, organizations need to regularly inspect for vulnerabilities within their systems. Some vulnerabilities include:

ProxyLogon: A pre-authenticated vulnerability that affects the Microsoft Exchange server. This means a threat actor can complete a user authentication process to deploy malicious code from a remote location.

ZeroLogon: A vulnerability in Microsoft’s Netlogon authentication protocol. An authentication protocol is a way to verify a person's identity. Netlogon is a service that ensures a user’s identity before allowing access to a website's location.

Log4Shell: Allows attackers to run Java code on someone else’s computer or leak sensitive information. It does this by enabling a remote attacker to take control of devices connected to the internet and run malicious code.

PetitPotam: Affects Windows New Technology Local Area Network (LAN) Manager (NTLM). It is a theft technique that allows a LAN-based attacker to initiate an authentication request.

Security logging and monitoring failures: Insufficient logging and monitoring capabilities that result in attackers exploiting vulnerabilities without the organization knowing it

Server-side request forgery: Allows attackers to manipulate a server-side application into accessing and updating backend resources. It can also allow threat actors to steal data.

As an entry-level security analyst, you might work in vulnerability management, which is monitoring a system to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities. Although patches and updates may exist, if they are not applied, intrusions can still occur. For this reason, constant monitoring is important. The sooner an organization identifies a vulnerability and addresses it by patching it or updating their systems, the sooner it can be mitigated, reducing the organization’s exposure to the vulnerability.

To learn more about the vulnerabilities explained in this section of the reading, as well as other vulnerabilities, explore the
NIST National Vulnerability Database
 and
CISA Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog
.

Key takeaways
In this reading, you learned about some risk management strategies and frameworks that can be used to develop organization-wide policies and processes to mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. You also learned about some of today’s most common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to business operations. Understanding these concepts can better prepare you to not only protect against, but also mitigate, the types of security-related issues that can harm organizations and people alike.


Quiz: Test your knowledge: Navigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities

Q: What is a vulnerability?
A: A vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat.

Q: Fill in the blank: Information protected by regulations or laws is a _____. If it is compromised, there is likely to be a severe negative impact on an organization’s finances, operations, or reputation.
A: Information protected by regulations or laws is a high-risk asset. If it is compromised, there is likely to be a severe negative impact on an organization’s finances, operations, or reputation.

Q: What are the key impacts of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities? Select three answers.
A: The key impacts of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities are financial damage, identity theft, and damage to reputation.

Q: Fill in the blank: The steps in the Risk Management Framework (RMF) are prepare, _____, select, implement, assess, authorize, and monitor.
A: The steps in the RMF are prepare, categorize, select, implement, assess, authorize, and monitor. In the categorize step, security professionals develop risk-management processes and tasks.



Text Content: Glossary Terms
Glossary terms from module 1
Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 1
Assess: The fifth step of the NIST RMF that means to determine if established controls are implemented correctly

Authorize: The sixth step of the NIST RMF that refers to being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist in an organization

Business continuity: An organization's ability to maintain their everyday productivity by establishing risk disaster recovery plans

Categorize: The second step of the NIST RMF that is used to develop risk management processes and tasks

External threat: Anything outside the organization that has the potential to harm organizational assets

Implement: The fourth step of the NIST RMF that means to implement security and privacy plans for an organization

Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

Monitor: The seventh step of the NIST RMF that means be aware of how systems are operating

Prepare: The first step of the NIST RMF related to activities that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs

Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization’s data and demand payment to restore access

Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset

Risk mitigation: The process of having the right procedures and rules in place to quickly reduce the impact of a risk like a breach

Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change

Select: The third step of the NIST RMF that means to choose, customize, and capture documentation of the controls that protect an organization

Shared responsibility: The idea that all individuals within an organization take an active role in lowering risk and maintaining both physical and virtual security

Social engineering: A manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables

Vulnerability: A weakness that can be exploited by a threat

Video: Frameworks
In an organization, plans are put in place to protect against a variety of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. However, the requirements used to protect organizations and people often overlap. Because of this, organizations use security frameworks as a starting point to create their own security policies and processes.
Let's start by quickly reviewing what frameworks are. Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy, such as social engineering attacks and ransomware. Security involves more than just the virtual space. It also includes the physical, which is why many organizations have plans to maintain safety in the work environment. For example, access to a building may require using a key card or badge.
Other security frameworks provide guidance for how to prevent, detect, and respond to security breaches. This is particularly important when trying to protect an organization from social engineering attacks like phishing that target their employees.
Remember, people are the biggest threat to security. So frameworks can be used to create plans that increase employee awareness and educate them about how they can protect the organization, their co-workers, and themselves. Educating employees about existing security challenges is essential for minimizing the possibility of a breach.
Providing employee training about how to recognize red flags, or potential threats, is essential, along with having plans in place to quickly report and address security issues. As an analyst, it will be important for you to understand and implement the plans your organization has in place to keep the organization, its employees, and the people it serves safe from social engineering attacks, breaches, and other harmful security incidents.
Coming up, we'll review and discuss security controls, which are used alongside frameworks to achieve an organization's security goals.

Video: Controls
While frameworks are used to create plans to address security risks, threats, and vulnerabilities, controls are used to reduce specific risks. If proper controls are not in place, an organization could face significant financial impacts and damage to their reputation because of exposure to risks including trespassing, creating fake employee accounts, or providing free benefits.
Let's review the definition of controls. Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. In this video, we'll discuss three common types of controls: encryption, authentication, and authorization.
Encryption is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Typically, encryption involves converting data from plaintext to ciphertext. Ciphertext is the raw, encoded message that's unreadable to humans and computers. Ciphertext data cannot be read until it's been decrypted into its original plaintext form. Encryption is used to ensure confidentiality of sensitive data, such as customers' account information or social security numbers.
Another control that can be used to protect sensitive data is authentication. Authentication is the process of verifying who someone or something is. A real-world example of authentication is logging into a website with your username and password. This basic form of authentication proves that you know the username and password and should be allowed to access the website. More advanced methods of authentication, such as multi-factor authentication, or MFA, challenge the user to demonstrate that they are who they claim to be by requiring both a password and an additional form of authentication, like a security code or biometrics, such as a fingerprint, voice, or face scan.
Biometrics are unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person's identity. Examples of biometrics are a fingerprint, an eye scan, or a palm scan. One example of a social engineering attack that can exploit biometrics is vishing. Vishing is the exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source. For example, vishing could be used to impersonate a person's voice to steal their identity and then commit a crime.
Another very important security control is authorization. Authorization refers to the concept of granting access to specific resources within a system. Essentially, authorization is used to verify that a person has permission to access a resource. As an example, if you're working as an entry-level security analyst for the federal government, you could have permission to access data through the deep web or other internal data that is only accessible if you're a federal employee.
The security controls we discussed today are only one element of a core security model known as the CIA triad. Coming up, we'll talk more about this model and how security teams use it to protect their organizations.


Text Content: The relationship between frameworks and controls
Previously, you learned how organizations use security frameworks and controls to protect against threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This included discussions about the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) Risk Management Framework (RMF) and Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad. In this reading, you will further explore security frameworks and controls and how they are used together to help mitigate organizational risk.

Frameworks and controls
Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy. Frameworks support organizations’ ability to adhere to compliance laws and regulations. For example, the healthcare industry uses frameworks to comply with the United States’ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which requires that medical professionals keep patient information safe.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. Security controls are the measures organizations use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy. For example, a control that can be used alongside frameworks to ensure a hospital remains compliant with HIPAA is requiring that patients use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access their medical records. Using a measure like MFA to validate someone’s identity is one way to help mitigate potential risks and threats to private data.

Specific frameworks and controls
There are many different frameworks and controls that organizations can use to remain compliant with regulations and achieve their security goals. Frameworks covered in this reading are the Cyber Threat Framework (CTF) and the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001. Several common security controls, used alongside these types of frameworks, are also explained.

Cyber Threat Framework (CTF)
According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the CTF was developed by the U.S. government to provide “a common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.” By providing a common language to communicate information about threat activity, the CTF helps cybersecurity professionals analyze and share information more efficiently. This allows organizations to improve their response to the constantly evolving cybersecurity landscape and threat actors' many tactics and techniques.

International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001
An internationally recognized and used framework is ISO/IEC 27001. The ISO 27000 family of standards enables organizations of all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets, such as financial information, intellectual property, employee data, and information entrusted to third parties. This framework outlines requirements for an information security management system, best practices, and controls that support an organization’s ability to manage risks. Although the ISO/IEC 27001 framework does not require the use of specific controls, it does provide a collection of controls that organizations can use to improve their security posture.

Controls
Controls are used alongside frameworks to reduce the possibility and impact of a security threat, risk, or vulnerability. Controls can be physical, technical, and administrative and are typically used to prevent, detect, or correct security issues.

Examples of physical controls:

Gates, fences, and locks

Security guards

Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors

Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:

Firewalls

MFA

Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:

Separation of duties

Authorization

Asset classification

To learn more about controls, particularly those used to protect health-related assets from a variety of threat types, review the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’
Physical Access Control presentation
.

Key takeaways
Cybersecurity frameworks and controls are used together to establish an organization’s security posture. They also support an organization’s ability to meet security goals and comply with laws and regulations. Although these frameworks and controls are typically voluntary, organizations are strongly encouraged to implement and use them to help ensure the safety of critical assets.

Video: Explore the CIA triad
Great to see you again! While working as an entry-level security analyst, your main responsibility is to help protect your organization's sensitive assets and data from threat actors. The CIA triad is a core security model that will help you do that.
In this video, we'll explore the CIA triad and discuss the importance of each component for keeping an organization safe from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Let's get started!
The CIA triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. As a reminder, the three letters in the CIA triad stand for confidentiality, integrity, and availability. As an entry-level analyst, you'll find yourself constantly referring to these three core principles as you work to protect your organization and the people it serves.
Confidentiality means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. Sensitive data should be available on a "need to know" basis, so that only the people who are authorized to handle certain assets or data have access.
Integrity means that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable. Determining the integrity of data and analyzing how it's used will help you, as a security professional, decide whether the data can or cannot be trusted.
Availability means that the data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it. Inaccessible data isn't useful and can prevent people from being able to do their jobs. As a security professional, ensuring that systems, networks, and applications are functioning properly to allow for timely and reliable access, may be a part of your everyday work responsibilities.
Now that we've defined the CIA triad and its components, let's explore how you might use the CIA triad to protect an organization. If you work for an organization that has large amounts of private data like a bank, the principle of confidentiality is essential because the bank must keep people's personal and financial information safe.
The principle of integrity is also a priority. For example, if a person's spending habits or purchasing locations change dramatically, the bank will likely disable access to the account until they can verify that the account owner, not a threat actor, is actually the one making purchases.
The availability principle is also critical. Banks put a lot of effort into making sure that people can access their account information easily on the web. And to make sure that information is protected from threat actors, banks use a validation process to help minimize damage if they suspect that customer accounts have been compromised.
As an analyst, you'll regularly use each component of the triad to help protect your organization and the people it serves. And having the CIA triad constantly in mind, will help you keep sensitive data and assets safe from a variety of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities including the social engineering attacks, malware, and data theft we discussed earlier.
Coming up, we'll explore specific frameworks and principles that will also help you protect your organization from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. See you soon!

Text Content: Use the CIA triad to protect organizations
Previously, you were introduced to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad and how it helps organizations consider and mitigate risk. In this reading, you will learn how cybersecurity analysts use the CIA triad in the workplace.

The CIA triad for analysts
The CIA triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. It is made up of three elements that cybersecurity analysts and organizations work toward upholding: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Maintaining an acceptable level of risk and ensuring systems and policies are designed with these elements in mind helps establish a successful security posture, which refers to an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change.

Confidentiality
Confidentiality is the idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. In an organization, confidentiality can be enhanced through the implementation of design principles, such as the principle of least privilege. The principle of least privilege limits users' access to only the information they need to complete work-related tasks. Limiting access is one way of maintaining the confidentiality and security of private data.

Integrity
Integrity is the idea that the data is verifiably correct, authentic, and reliable. Having protocols in place to verify the authenticity of data is essential. One way to verify data integrity is through
cryptography
, which is used to transform data so unauthorized parties cannot read or tamper with it (NIST, 2022). Another example of how an organization might implement integrity is by enabling encryption, which is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Encryption can be used to prevent access and ensure data, such as messages on an organization's internal chat platform, cannot be tampered with.

Availability
Availability is the idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to use it. When a system adheres to both availability and confidentiality principles, data can be used when needed. In the workplace, this could mean that the organization allows remote employees to access its internal network to perform their jobs. It’s worth noting that access to data on the internal network is still limited, depending on what type of access employees need to do their jobs. If, for example, an employee works in the organization’s accounting department, they might need access to corporate accounts but not data related to ongoing development projects.

Key takeaways
The CIA triad is essential for establishing an organization’s security posture. Knowing what it is and how it’s applied can help you better understand how security teams work to protect organizations and the people they serve.


Video: NIST frameworks
Welcome back. Before we get started, let's quickly review the purpose of frameworks. Organizations use frameworks as a starting point to develop plans that mitigate risks, threats, and vulnerabilities to sensitive data and assets. Fortunately, there are organizations worldwide that create frameworks security professionals can use to develop those plans.
In this video, we'll discuss two of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST's frameworks that can support ongoing security efforts for all types of organizations, including for profit and nonprofit businesses, as well as government agencies. While NIST is a US based organization, the guidance it provides can help analysts all over the world understand how to implement essential cybersecurity practices. One NIST framework that we'll discuss throughout the program is the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, or CSF.
The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk. This framework is widely respected and essential for maintaining security regardless of the organization you work for. The CSF consists of five important core functions, identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover, which we'll discuss in detail in a future video. For now, we'll focus on how the CSF benefits organizations and how it can be used to protect against threats, risks, and vulnerabilities by providing a workplace example.
Imagine that one morning you receive a high-risk notification that a workstation has been compromised. You identify the workstation, and discover that there's an unknown device plugged into it. You block the unknown device remotely to stop any potential threat and protect the organization. Then you remove the infected workstation to prevent the spread of the damage and use tools to detect any additional threat actor behavior and identify the unknown device. You respond by investigating the incident to determine who used the unknown device, how the threat occurred, what was affected, and where the attack originated.
In this case, you discover that an employee was charging their infected phone using a USB port on their work laptop. Finally, you do your best to recover any files or data that were affected and correct any damage the threat caused to the workstation itself.
As demonstrated by the previous example, the core functions of the NIST CSF provide specific guidance and direction for security professionals. This framework is used to develop plans to handle an incident appropriately and quickly to lower risk, protect an organization against a threat, and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities. The NIST CSF also expands into the protection of the United States federal government with NIST special publication, or SP 800-53. It provides a unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the federal government, including the systems provided by private companies for federal government use.
The security controls provided by this framework are used to maintain the CIA triad for those systems used by the government. Isn't it amazing how all of these frameworks and controls work together. We've discussed some really important security topics in this video that will be very useful for you as you continue your security journey. Because they're core elements of the security profession, the NIST CSF is a useful framework that most security professionals are familiar with, and having an understanding of the NIST, SP 800-53 is crucial if you have an interest in working for the US federal government. Coming up, we'll continue to explore the five NIST CSF functions and how organizations use them to protect assets and data.


Video: Explore the five functions of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
Hello again! I'm excited you're here. We have so much to discuss. Previously, we covered the uses and benefits of the NIST CSF. In this video, we'll focus specifically on the five core functions of the NIST CSF framework. Let's get started.
NIST CSF focuses on five core functions: identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover. These core functions help organizations manage cybersecurity risks, implement risk management strategies, and learn from previous mistakes. Basically, when it comes to security operations, NIST CSF functions are key for making sure an organization is protected against potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. So let's take a little time to explore how each function can be used to improve an organization's security.
The first core function is identify, which is related to the management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's people and assets. For example, as a security analyst, you may be asked to monitor systems and devices in your organization's internal network to identify potential security issues
The second core function is protect, which is the strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats.
For example, as a security analyst, you and your team might encounter new and unfamiliar threats and attacks. For this reason, studying historical data and making improvements to policies and procedures is essential.
The third core function is detect, which means identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections. For example, as an analyst, you might be asked to review a new security tool's setup to make sure it's flagging low, medium, or high risk, and then alerting the security team about any potential threats or incidents. The fourth function is respond, which means making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process.
As an analyst, you could be working with a team to collect and organize data to document an incident and suggest improvements to processes to prevent the incident from happening again.
The fifth core function is recover, which is the process of returning affected systems back to normal operation.
For example, as an entry-level security analyst, you might work with your security team to restore systems, data, and assets, such as financial or legal files, that have been affected by an incident like a breach.
We've covered a lot of information in this video. Hopefully, it helped you understand the value of learning about the NIST CSF and its five core functions.
From proactive to reactive measures, all five functions are essential for making sure that an organization has effective security strategies in place.
Security incidents are going to happen, but an organization must have the ability to quickly recover from any damage caused by an incident to minimize their level of risk.
Coming up, we'll discuss security principles that work hand-in-hand with NIST frameworks and the CIA triad to help protect critical data and assets.


Video: OWASP security principles
It's important to understand how to protect an organization's data and assets because that will be part of your role as a security analyst. Fortunately, there are principles and guidelines that can be used, along with NIST frameworks and the CIA triad, to help security teams minimize threats and risks.
In this video, we'll explore some Open Web Application Security Project, or OWASP, security principles that are useful to know as an entry-level analyst.
The first OWASP principle is to minimize the attack surface area. An attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities that a threat actor could exploit, like attack vectors, which are pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses. Examples of common attack vectors are phishing emails and weak passwords. To minimize the attack surface and avoid incidents from these types of vectors, security teams might disable software features, restrict who can access certain assets, or establish more complex password requirements.
The principle of least privilege means making sure that users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks. The main reason for limiting access to organizational information and resources is to reduce the amount of damage a security breach could cause. For example, as an entry-level analyst, you may have access to log data, but may not have access to change user permissions. Therefore, if a threat actor compromises your credentials, they'll only be able to gain limited access to digital or physical assets, which may not be enough for them to deploy their intended attack.
The next principle we'll discuss is defense in depth. Defense in depth means that an organization should have multiple security controls that address risks and threats in different ways. One example of a security control is multi-factor authentication, or MFA, which requires users to take an additional step beyond simply entering their username and password to gain access to an application. Other controls include firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and permission settings that can be used to create multiple points of defense, a threat actor must get through to breach an organization.
Another principle is separation of duties, which can be used to prevent individuals from carrying out fraudulent or illegal activities. This principle means that no one should be given so many privileges that they can misuse the system. For example, the person in a company who signs the paychecks shouldn't also be the person who prepares them.
Only two more principles to go! You're doing great. Keep security simple is the next principle. As the name suggests, when implementing security controls, unnecessarily complicated solutions should be avoided because they can become unmanageable. The more complex the security controls are, the harder it is for people to work collaboratively.
The last principle is to fix security issues correctly. Technology is a great tool, but can also present challenges. When a security incident occurs, security professionals are expected to identify the root cause quickly. From there, it's important to correct any identified vulnerabilities and conduct tests to ensure that repairs are successful.
An example of an issue is a weak password to access an organization's wifi because it could lead to a breach. To fix this type of security issue, stricter password policies could be put in place.
I know we've covered a lot, but understanding these principles increases your overall security knowledge and can help you stand out as a security professional.

Text Content: More about OWASP security principles
Previously, you learned that cybersecurity analysts help keep data safe and reduce risk for an organization by using a variety of security frameworks, controls, and security principles. In this reading, you will learn about more Open Web Application Security Project, recently renamed Open Worldwide Application Security Project® (OWASP), security principles and how entry-level analysts use them.

Security principles
In the workplace, security principles are embedded in your daily tasks. Whether you are analyzing logs, monitoring a security information and event management (SIEM) dashboard, or using a
vulnerability scanner
, you will use these principles in some way.

Previously, you were introduced to several OWASP security principles. These included:

Minimize attack surface area: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.

Principle of least privilege: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.

Defense in depth: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.

Separation of duties: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege.

Keep security simple: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult.

Fix security issues correctly: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.

Additional OWASP security principles
Next, you’ll learn about four additional OWASP security principles that cybersecurity analysts and their teams use to keep organizational operations and people safe.

Establish secure defaults
This principle means that the optimal security state of an application is also its default state for users; it should take extra work to make the application insecure.

Fail securely
Fail securely means that when a control fails or stops, it should do so by defaulting to its most secure option. For example, when a firewall fails it should simply close all connections and block all new ones, rather than start accepting everything.

Don’t trust services
Many organizations work with third-party partners. These outside partners often have different security policies than the organization does. And the organization shouldn’t explicitly trust that their partners’ systems are secure. For example, if a third-party vendor tracks reward points for airline customers, the airline should ensure that the balance is accurate before sharing that information with their customers.

Avoid security by obscurity
The security of key systems should not rely on keeping details hidden. Consider the following example from OWASP (2016):

The security of an application should not rely on keeping the source code secret. Its security should rely upon many other factors, including reasonable password policies, defense in depth, business transaction limits, solid network architecture, and fraud and audit controls.

Key takeaways
Cybersecurity professionals are constantly applying security principles to safeguard organizations and the people they serve. As an entry-level security analyst, you can use these security principles to promote safe development practices that reduce risks to companies and users alike.


Video: Plan a security audit
Now that we've covered different frameworks, controls, security principles, and compliance regulations, the question is: How do they all work together?
The answer to that question is by conducting security audits. A security audit is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations.
There are two main types of security audits: external and internal. We'll focus on internal security audits because those are the types of audits that entry-level analysts might be asked to contribute to.
An internal security audit is typically conducted by a team of people that might include an organization's compliance officer, security manager, and other security team members. Internal security audits are used to help improve an organization's security posture and help organizations avoid fines from governing agencies due to a lack of compliance. Internal security audits help security teams identify organizational risk, assess controls, and correct compliance issues.
Now that we've discussed the purposes of internal audits, let's cover some common elements of internal audits. These include establishing the scope and goals of the audit, conducting a risk assessment of the organization's assets, completing a controls assessment, assessing compliance, and communicating results to stakeholders.
In this video, we'll cover the first two elements, which are a part of the audit planning process: establishing the scope and goals, then completing a risk assessment.
Scope refers to the specific criteria of an internal security audit. Scope requires organizations to identify people, assets, policies, procedures, and technologies that might impact an organization's security posture. Goals are an outline of the organization's security objectives, or what they want to achieve in order to improve their security posture.
Although more senior-level security team members and other stakeholders usually establish the scope and goals of the audit, entry-level analysts might be asked to review and understand the scope and goals in order to complete other elements of the audit.
As an example, the scope of this audit involves assessing user permissions; identifying existing controls, policies, and procedures; and accounting for the technology currently in use by the organization. The goals outlined include implementing core functions of frameworks, like the NIST CSF; establishing policies and procedures to ensure compliance; and strengthening system controls.
The next element is conducting a risk assessment, which is focused on identifying potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This helps organizations consider what security measures should be implemented and monitored to ensure the safety of assets. Similar to establishing the scope and goals, a risk assessment is oftentimes completed by managers or other stakeholders. However, you might be asked to analyze details provided in the risk assessment to consider what types of controls and compliance regulations need to be in place to help improve the organization's security posture.
For example, this risk assessment highlights that there are inadequate controls, processes, and procedures in place to protect the organization's assets. Specifically, there is a lack of proper management of physical and digital assets, including employee equipment. The equipment used to store data is not properly secured. And access to private information stored in the organization's internal network likely needs more robust controls in place. Now that we've discussed the initial planning elements of an internal security audit, coming up, we'll focus on the last three elements.


Video: Complete a security audit
Previously, we discussed the initial planning elements of an internal security audit. In this video, we'll cover the final elements that an entry-level analyst might be asked to complete.
As a reminder, the planning elements of internal security audits include establishing the scope and goals, then conducting a risk assessment. The remaining elements are completing a controls assessment, assessing compliance, and communicating results. Before completing these last three elements, you'll need to review the scope and goals, as well as the risk assessment, and ask yourself some questions. For example: What is the audit meant to achieve? Which assets are most at risk? Are current controls sufficient to protect those assets? If not, what controls and compliance regulations need to be implemented? Considering questions like these can support your ability to complete the next element: a controls assessment.
A controls assessment involves closely reviewing an organization's existing assets, then evaluating potential risks to those assets, to ensure internal controls and processes are effective. To do this, entry-level analysts might be tasked with classifying controls into the following categories: administrative controls, technical controls, and physical controls.
Administrative controls are related to the human component of cybersecurity. They include policies and procedures that define how an organization manages data, such as the implementation of password policies.
Technical controls are hardware and software solutions used to protect assets, such as the use of intrusion detection systems, or IDS's, and encryption.
Physical controls refer to measures put in place to prevent physical access to protected assets, such as surveillance cameras and locks.
The next element is determining whether or not the organization is adhering to necessary compliance regulations. As a reminder, compliance regulations are laws that organizations must follow to ensure private data remains secure. In this example, the organization conducts business in the European Union and accepts credit card payments. So they need to adhere to the GDPR and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS.
The final common element of an internal security audit is communication. Once the internal security audit is complete, results and recommendations need to be communicated to stakeholders. In general, this type of communication summarizes the scope and goals of the audit. Then, it lists existing risks and notes how quickly those risks need to be addressed. Additionally, it identifies compliance regulations the organization needs to adhere to and provides recommendations for improving the organization's security posture.
Internal audits are a great way to identify gaps within an organization. When I worked at a previous company, my team and I conducted an internal password audit and found that many of the passwords were weak. Once we identified this issue, the compliance team took the lead and began enforcing stricter password policies. Audits are an opportunity to determine what security measures an organization has in place and what areas need to be improved to achieve the organization's desired security posture.
Security audits are quite involved, yet of extreme value to organizations. Later in the course, you'll have an opportunity to complete elements of an internal security audit for a fictional company, which you can include in your professional portfolio.


Text Content: More about security audits
Previously, you were introduced to how to plan and complete an internal security audit. In this reading, you will learn more about security audits, including the goals and objectives of audits.

Security audits
A security audit is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations. Audits are independent reviews that evaluate whether an organization is meeting internal and external criteria. Internal criteria include outlined policies, procedures, and best practices. External criteria include regulatory compliance, laws, and federal regulations.

Additionally, a security audit can be used to assess an organization's established security controls. As a reminder, security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.

Audits help ensure that security checks are made (i.e., daily monitoring of security information and event management dashboards), to identify threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This helps maintain an organization’s security posture. And, if there are security issues, a remediation process must be in place.

Goals and objectives of an audit
The goal of an audit is to ensure an organization's information technology (IT) practices are meeting industry and organizational standards. The objective is to identify and address areas of remediation and growth. Audits provide direction and clarity by identifying what the current failures are and developing a plan to correct them.

Security audits must be performed to safeguard data and avoid penalties and fines from governmental agencies. The frequency of audits is dependent on local laws and federal compliance regulations.

Factors that affect audits
Factors that determine the types of audits an organization implements include:

Industry type

Organization size

Ties to the applicable government regulations

A business’s geographical location

A business decision to adhere to a specific regulatory compliance

To review common compliance regulations that different organizations need to adhere to, refer to
the reading about controls, frameworks, and compliance
.

The role of frameworks and controls in audits
Along with compliance, it’s important to mention the role of frameworks and controls in security audits. Frameworks such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) and the international standard for information security (ISO 27000) series are designed to help organizations prepare for regulatory compliance security audits. By adhering to these and other relevant frameworks, organizations can save time when conducting external and internal audits. Additionally, frameworks, when used alongside controls, can support organizations’ ability to align with regulatory compliance requirements and standards.

There are three main categories of controls to review during an audit, which are administrative and/or managerial, technical, and physical controls. To learn more about specific controls related to each category, click the following link and select “Use Template.”

Link to template:
Control categories
Control categories
Controls within cybersecurity are grouped into three main categories:
● Administrative/Managerial controls
● Technical controls
● Physical controls
Administrative/Managerial controls address the human component of
cybersecurity. These controls include policies and procedures that define how an
organization manages data and clearly defines employee responsibilities, including
their role in protecting the organization. While administrative controls are typically
policy based, the enforcement of those policies may require the use of technical or
physical controls.
Technical controls consist of solutions such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems
(IDS), intrusion prevention systems (IPS), antivirus (AV) products, encryption, etc.
Technical controls can be used in a number of ways to meet organizational goals and
objectives.
Physical controls include door locks, cabinet locks, surveillance cameras, badge
readers, etc. They are used to limit physical access to physical assets by unauthorized
personnel.
Control types
Control types include, but are not limited to:
1. Preventative
2. Corrective
3. Detective
4. Deterrent

These controls work together to provide defense in depth and protect assets.
Preventative controls are designed to prevent an incident from occurring in the first
place. Corrective controls are used to restore an asset after an incident. Detective
controls are implemented to determine whether an incident has occurred or is in
progress. Deterrent controls are designed to discourage attacks.
Review the following charts for specific details about each type of control and its
purpose.

Administrative Controls

Control Name Control Type Control Purpose
Least Privilege Preventative Reduce risk and overall
impact of malicious insider
or compromised accounts

Disaster recovery plans Corrective Provide business
continuity

Password policies Preventative Reduce likelihood of
account compromise
through brute force or
dictionary attack
techniques

Access control policies Preventative Bolster confidentiality and
integrity by defining which
groups can access or
modify data

Account management
policies

Preventative Managing account
lifecycle, reducing attack
surface, and limiting
overall impact from
disgruntled former
employees and default
account usage
Separation of duties Preventative Reduce risk and overall
impact of malicious insider
or compromised accounts

Technical Controls

Control Name Control Type Control Purpose
Firewall Preventative To filter unwanted or
malicious traffic from
entering the network
IDS/IPS Detective To detect and prevent
anomalous traffic that
matches a signature or
rule

Encryption Deterrent Provide confidentiality to
sensitive information
Backups Corrective Restore/recover from an

event

Password management Preventative Reduce password fatigue
Antivirus (AV) software Corrective Detect and quarantine
known threats

Manual monitoring,
maintenance, and
intervention

Preventative Necessary to identify and
manage threats, risks, or
vulnerabilities to
out-of-date systems

Physical Controls

Control Name Control Type Control Purpose
Time-controlled safe Deterrent Reduce attack surface and
overall impact from
physical threats

Adequate lighting Deterrent Deter threats by limiting

“hiding” places

Closed-circuit television
(CCTV)

Preventative/Detective Closed circuit television is
both a preventative and
detective control because
it’s presence can reduce
risk of certain types of
events from occurring,
and can be used after an
event to inform on event
conditions

Locking cabinets (for
network gear)

Preventative Bolster integrity by
preventing unauthorized
personnel and other
individuals from physically
accessing or modifying
network infrastructure
gear

Signage indicating alarm
service provider

Deterrent Deter certain types of
threats by making the
likelihood of a successful
attack seem low
Locks Deterrent/Preventative Bolster integrity by
deterring and preventing
unauthorized personnel,
individuals from physically
accessing assets

Fire detection and
prevention (fire alarm,
sprinkler system, etc.)

Detective/Preventative Detect fire in physical
location and prevent
damage to physical assets
such as inventory, servers, etc.

Audit checklist
It’s necessary to create an audit checklist before conducting an audit. A checklist is generally made up of the following areas of focus:

Identify the scope of the audit

The audit should:

List assets that will be assessed (e.g., firewalls are configured correctly, PII is secure, physical assets are locked, etc.)

Note how the audit will help the organization achieve its desired goals

Indicate how often an audit should be performed

Include an evaluation of organizational policies, protocols, and procedures to make sure they are working as intended and being implemented by employees

Complete a risk assessment

A risk assessment is used to evaluate identified organizational risks related to budget, controls, internal processes, and external standards (i.e., regulations).

Conduct the audit

When conducting an internal audit, you will assess the security of the identified assets listed in the audit scope.

Create a mitigation plan

A mitigation plan is a strategy established to lower the level of risk and potential costs, penalties, or other issues that can negatively affect the organization’s security posture.

Communicate results to stakeholders

The end result of this process is providing a detailed report of findings, suggested improvements needed to lower the organization's level of risk, and compliance regulations and standards the organization needs to adhere to.

Key takeaways
In this reading you learned more about security audits, including what they are; why they’re conducted; and the role of frameworks, controls, and compliance in audits.

Although there is much more to learn about security audits, this introduction is meant to support your ability to complete an audit of your own for a self-reflection portfolio activity later in this course.


Text Content: Glossary
Glossary terms from module 2
Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 2
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization

Attack vectors: The pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses

Authentication: The process of verifying who someone is

Authorization: The concept of granting access to specific resources in a system

Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it

Biometrics: The unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person’s identity

Confidentiality: The idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data

Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies

Detect: A NIST core function related to identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections

Encryption: The process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format

Identify: A NIST core function related to management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization’s people and assets

Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (S.P.) 800-53: A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the U.S. federal government

Open Web Application Security Project/Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP): A non-profit organization focused on improving software security

Protect: A NIST core function used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats

Recover: A NIST core function related to returning affected systems back to normal operation

Respond: A NIST core function related to making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process

Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset

Security audit: A review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations

Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks

Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy

Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change

Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets



Video: Logs and SIEM tools
As a security analyst, one of your responsibilities might include analyzing log data to mitigate and manage threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. As a reminder, a log is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems and networks. Security analysts access a variety of logs from different sources. Three common log sources include firewall logs, network logs, and server logs. Let's explore each of these log sources in more detail.
A firewall log is a record of attempted or established connections for incoming traffic from the internet. It also includes outbound requests to the internet from within the network.
A network log is a record of all computers and devices that enter and leave the network. It also records connections between devices and services on the network.
Finally, a server log is a record of events related to services such as websites, emails, or file shares. It includes actions such as login, password, and username requests.
By monitoring logs, like the one shown here, security teams can identify vulnerabilities and potential data breaches. Understanding logs is important because SIEM tools rely on logs to monitor systems and detect security threats.
A security information and event management, or SIEM, tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. It provides real-time visibility, event monitoring and analysis, and automated alerts. It also stores all log data in a centralized location.
Because SIEM tools index and minimize the number of logs a security professional must manually review and analyze, they increase efficiency and save time.
But, SIEM tools must be configured and customized to meet each organization's unique security needs. As new threats and vulnerabilities emerge, organizations must continually customize their SIEM tools to ensure that threats are detected and quickly addressed.
Later in the certificate program, you'll have a chance to practice using different SIEM tools to identify potential security incidents.
Coming up, we'll explore SIEM dashboards and how cybersecurity professionals use them to monitor for threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.



Video: SIEM dashboards
We've explored how SIEM tools are used to collect and analyze log data. However, this is just one of the many ways SIEM tools are used in cybersecurity.
SIEM tools can also be used to create dashboards. You might have encountered dashboards in an app on your phone or other device. They present information about your account or location in a format that's easy to understand.
For example, weather apps display data like temperature, precipitation, wind speed, and the forecast using charts, graphs, and other visual elements. This format makes it easy to quickly identify weather patterns and trends, so you can stay prepared and plan your day accordingly.
Just like weather apps help people make quick and informed decisions based on data, SIEM dashboards help security analysts quickly and easily access their organization's security information as charts, graphs, or tables.
For example, a security analyst receives an alert about a suspicious login attempt. The analyst accesses their SIEM dashboard to gather information about this alert. Using the dashboard, the analyst discovers that there have been 500 login attempts for Ymara's account in the span of five-minutes. They also discover that the login attempts happened from geographic locations outside of Ymara's usual location and outside of her usual working hours. By using a dashboard, the security analyst was able to quickly review visual representations of the timeline of the login attempts, the location, and the exact time of the activity, then determine that the activity was suspicious.
In addition to providing a comprehensive summary of security-related data, SIEM dashboards also provide stakeholders with different metrics. Metrics are key technical attributes such as response time, availability, and failure rate, which are used to assess the performance of a software application.
SIEM dashboards can be customized to display specific metrics or other data that are relevant to different members in an organization. For example, a security analyst may create a dashboard that displays metrics for monitoring everyday business operations, like the volume of incoming and outgoing network traffic.
We've examined how security analysts use SIEM dashboards to help organizations maintain their security posture. Well done!
Coming up, we'll discuss some common SIEM tools used in the cybersecurity industry. Meet you there.


Text Content: The future of SIEM tools
Previously, you were introduced to security information and event management (SIEM) tools, along with a few examples of SIEM tools. In this reading, you will learn more about how SIEM tools are used to protect organizational operations. You will also gain insight into how and why SIEM tools are changing to help protect organizations and the people they serve from evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

Current SIEM solutions
A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. SIEM tools offer real-time monitoring and tracking of security event logs. The data is then used to conduct a thorough analysis of any potential security threat, risk, or vulnerability identified. SIEM tools have many dashboard options. Each dashboard option helps cybersecurity team members manage and monitor organizational data. However, currently, SIEM tools require human interaction for analysis of security events.

The future of SIEM tools
As cybersecurity continues to evolve, the need for cloud functionality has increased. SIEM tools have and continue to evolve to function in cloud-hosted and cloud-native environments. Cloud-hosted SIEM tools are operated by vendors who are responsible for maintaining and managing the infrastructure required to use the tools. Cloud-hosted tools are simply accessed through the internet and are an ideal solution for organizations that don’t want to invest in creating and maintaining their own infrastructure.

Similar to cloud-hosted SIEM tools, cloud-native SIEM tools are also fully maintained and managed by vendors and accessed through the internet. However, cloud-native tools are designed to take full advantage of cloud computing capabilities, such as availability, flexibility, and scalability.

Yet, the evolution of SIEM tools is expected to continue in order to accommodate the changing nature of technology, as well as new threat actor tactics and techniques. For example, consider the current development of interconnected devices with access to the internet, known as the Internet of Things (IoT). The more interconnected devices there are, the larger the cybersecurity attack surface and the amount of data that threat actors can exploit. The diversity of attacks and data that require special attention is expected to grow significantly. Additionally, as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technology continues to progress, SIEM capabilities will be enhanced to better identify threat-related terminology, dashboard visualization, and data storage functionality.

The implementation of automation will also help security teams respond faster to possible incidents, performing many actions without waiting for a human response. Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is a collection of applications, tools, and workflows that uses automation to respond to security events. Essentially, this means that handling common security-related incidents with the use of SIEM tools is expected to become a more streamlined process requiring less manual intervention. This frees up security analysts to handle more complex and uncommon incidents that, consequently, can’t be automated with a SOAR. Nevertheless, the expectation is for cybersecurity-related platforms to communicate and interact with one another. Although the technology allowing interconnected systems and devices to communicate with each other exists, it is still a work in progress.

Key takeaways
SIEM tools play a major role in monitoring an organization’s data. As an entry-level security analyst, you might monitor SIEM dashboards as part of your daily tasks. Regularly researching new developments in SIEM technology will help you grow and adapt to the changes in the cybersecurity field. Cloud computing, SIEM-application integration, and automation are only some of the advancements security professionals can expect in the future evolution of SIEM tools.


Video: Explore common SIEM tools
Hello again! Previously, we discussed how SIEM tools help security analysts monitor systems and detect security threats.
In this video, we'll cover some industry leading SIEM tools that you'll likely encounter as a security analyst. First, let's discuss the different types of SIEM tools that organizations can choose from, based on their unique security needs.
Self-hosted SIEM tools require organizations to install, operate, and maintain the tool using their own physical infrastructure, such as server capacity. These applications are then managed and maintained by the organization's IT department, rather than a third party vendor. Self-hosted SIEM tools are ideal when an organization is required to maintain physical control over confidential data.
Alternatively, cloud-hosted SIEM tools are maintained and managed by the SIEM providers, making them accessible through the internet. Cloud-hosted SIEM tools are ideal for organizations that don't want to invest in creating and maintaining their own infrastructure.
Or, an organization can choose to use a combination of both self-hosted and cloud-hosted SIEM tools, known as a hybrid solution. Organizations might choose a hybrid SIEM solution to leverage the benefits of the cloud while also maintaining physical control over confidential data.
Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud, and Chronicle are common SIEM tools that many organizations use to help protect their data and systems. Let's begin by discussing Splunk.
Splunk is a data analysis platform and Splunk Enterprise provides SIEM solutions. Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time. Splunk Cloud is a cloud-hosted tool used to collect, search, and monitor log data. Splunk Cloud is helpful for organizations running hybrid or cloud-only environments, where some or all of the organization's services are in the cloud.
Finally, there's Google's Chronicle. Chronicle is a cloud-native tool designed to retain, analyze, and search data. Chronicle provides log monitoring, data analysis, and data collection. Like cloud-hosted tools, cloud-native tools are also fully maintained and managed by the vendor. But cloud-native tools are specifically designed to take full advantage of cloud computing capabilities such as availability, flexibility, and scalability.
Because threat actors are frequently improving their strategies to compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their targets, it's important for organizations to use a variety of security tools to help defend against attacks. The SIEM tools we just discussed are only a few examples of the tools available for security teams to use to help defend their organizations. And later in the certificate program, you'll have the exciting opportunity to practice using Splunk Cloud and Chronicle.


Text Content: More about cybersecurity tools
Previously, you learned about several tools that are used by cybersecurity team members to monitor for and identify potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. In this reading, you’ll learn more about common open-source and proprietary cybersecurity tools that you may use as a cybersecurity professional.

Open-source tools
Open-source tools are often free to use and can be user friendly. The objective of open-source tools is to provide users with software that is built by the public in a collaborative way, which can result in the software being more secure. Additionally, open-source tools allow for more customization by users, resulting in a variety of new services built from the same open-source software package.

Software engineers create open-source projects to improve software and make it available for anyone to use, as long as the specified license is respected. The source code for open-source projects is readily available to users, as well as the training material that accompanies them. Having these sources readily available allows users to modify and improve project materials.

Proprietary tools
Proprietary tools are developed and owned by a person or company, and users typically pay a fee for usage and training. The owners of proprietary tools are the only ones who can access and modify the source code. This means that users generally need to wait for updates to be made to the software, and at times they might need to pay a fee for those updates. Proprietary software generally allows users to modify a limited number of features to meet individual and organizational needs. Examples of proprietary tools include Splunk® and Chronicle SIEM tools.

Common misconceptions
There is a common misconception that open-source tools are less effective and not as safe to use as proprietary tools. However, developers have been creating open-source materials for years that have become industry standards. Although it is true that threat actors have attempted to manipulate open-source tools, because these tools are open source it is actually harder for people with malicious intent to successfully cause harm. The wide exposure and immediate access to the source code by well-intentioned and informed users and professionals makes it less likely for issues to occur, because they can fix issues as soon as they’re identified.

Examples of open-source tools
In security, there are many tools in use that are open-source and commonly available. Two examples are Linux and Suricata.

Linux
Linux is an open-source operating system that is widely used. It allows you to tailor the operating system to your needs using a command-line interface. An operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. It’s used to communicate with the hardware of a computer and manage software applications.

There are multiple versions of Linux that exist to accomplish specific tasks. Linux and its command-line interface will be discussed in detail, later in the certificate program.

Suricata
Suricata is an open-source network analysis and threat detection software.  Network analysis and threat detection software is used to inspect network traffic to identify suspicious behavior and generate network data logs. The detection software finds activity across users, computers, or Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to help uncover potential threats, risks, or vulnerabilities.

Suricata was developed by the Open Information Security Foundation (OISF). OISF is dedicated to maintaining open-source use of the Suricata project to ensure it’s free and publicly available. Suricata is widely used in the public and private sector, and it integrates with many SIEM tools and other security tools. Suricata will also be discussed in greater detail later in the program.

Key takeaways
Open-source tools are widely used in the cybersecurity profession. Throughout the certificate program, you will have multiple opportunities to learn about and explore both open-source and proprietary tools in more depth.



Text Content: Use SIEM tools to protect organizations
Previously, you were introduced to security information and event management (SIEM) tools and a few SIEM dashboards. You also learned about different threats, risks, and vulnerabilities an organization may experience. In this reading, you will learn more about SIEM dashboard data and how cybersecurity professionals use that data to identify a potential threat, risk, or vulnerability.

Splunk
Splunk offers different SIEM tool options: Splunk® Enterprise and Splunk® Cloud. Both allow you to review an organization's data on dashboards. This helps security professionals manage an organization's internal infrastructure by collecting, searching, monitoring, and analyzing log data from multiple sources to obtain full visibility into an organization’s everyday operations.

Review the following Splunk dashboards and their purposes:

Security posture dashboard
The security posture dashboard is designed for security operations centers (SOCs). It displays the last 24 hours of an organization’s notable security-related events and trends and allows security professionals to determine if security infrastructure and policies are performing as designed. Security analysts can use this dashboard to monitor and investigate potential threats in real time, such as suspicious network activity originating from a specific IP address.

Executive summary dashboard
The executive summary dashboard analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time. This helps security teams improve security measures that reduce risk. Security analysts might use this dashboard to provide high-level insights to stakeholders, such as generating a summary of security incidents and trends over a specific period of time.

Incident review dashboard
The incident review dashboard allows analysts to identify suspicious patterns that can occur in the event of an incident. It assists by highlighting higher risk items that need immediate review by an analyst. This dashboard can be very helpful because it provides a visual timeline of the events leading up to an incident.

Risk analysis dashboard
The risk analysis dashboard helps analysts identify risk for each risk object (e.g., a specific user, a computer, or an IP address). It shows changes in risk-related activity or behavior, such as a user logging in outside of normal working hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer. A security analyst might use this dashboard to analyze the potential impact of vulnerabilities in critical assets, which helps analysts prioritize their risk mitigation efforts.

Chronicle
Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool from Google that retains, analyzes, and searches log data to identify potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Chronicle allows you to collect and analyze log data according to:

A specific asset

A domain name

A user

An IP address

Chronicle provides multiple dashboards that help analysts monitor an organization’s logs, create filters and alerts, and track suspicious domain names.

Review the following Chronicle dashboards and their purposes:

Enterprise insights dashboard
The enterprise insights dashboard highlights recent alerts. It identifies suspicious domain names in logs, known as indicators of compromise (IOCs). Each result is labeled with a confidence score to indicate the likelihood of a threat. It also provides a severity level that indicates the significance of each threat to the organization. A security analyst might use this dashboard to monitor login or data access attempts related to a critical asset—like an application or system—from unusual locations or devices.

Data ingestion and health dashboard
The data ingestion and health dashboard shows the number of event logs, log sources, and success rates of data being processed into Chronicle. A security analyst might use this dashboard to ensure that log sources are correctly configured and that logs are received without error. This helps ensure that log related issues are addressed so that the security team has access to the log data they need.

IOC matches dashboard
The IOC matches dashboard indicates the top threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to the organization. Security professionals use this dashboard to observe domain names, IP addresses, and device IOCs over time in order to identify trends. This information is then used to direct the security team’s focus to the highest priority threats. For example, security analysts can use this dashboard to search for additional activity associated with an alert, such as a suspicious user login from an unusual geographic location.

Main dashboard
The main dashboard displays a high-level summary of information related to the organization’s data ingestion, alerting, and event activity over time. Security professionals can use this dashboard to access a timeline of security events—such as a spike in failed login attempts— to identify threat trends across log sources, devices, IP addresses, and physical locations.

Rule detections dashboard
The rule detections dashboard provides statistics related to incidents with the highest occurrences, severities, and detections over time. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all the alerts triggered by a specific detection rule, such as a rule designed to alert whenever a user opens a known malicious attachment from an email. Analysts then use those statistics to help manage recurring incidents and establish mitigation tactics to reduce an organization's level of risk.

User sign in overview dashboard
The user sign in overview dashboard provides information about user access behavior across the organization. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all user sign-in events to identify unusual user activity, such as a user signing in from multiple locations at the same time. This information is then used to help mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to user accounts and the organization’s applications.

Key takeaways
SIEM tools provide dashboards that help security professionals organize and focus their security efforts. This is important because it allows analysts to reduce risk by identifying, analyzing, and remediating the highest priority items in a timely manner. Later in the program, you’ll have an opportunity to practice using various SIEM tool features and commands for search queries.



Text Content: Glossary
Glossary terms from module 3
Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 3
Chronicle: A cloud-native tool designed to retain, analyze, and search data

Incident response: An organization’s quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage, and correct the effects of a security breach

Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems

Metrics: Key technical attributes such as response time, availability, and failure rate, which are used to assess the performance of a software application

Operating system (OS): The interface between computer hardware and the user

Playbook: A manual that provides details about any operational action

Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR): A collection of applications, tools, and workflows that use automation to respond to security events

SIEM tools: A software platform that collects, analyzes, and correlates security data from various sources across your IT infrastructure that helps identify and respond to security threats in real-time, investigate security incidents, and comply with security regulations

Splunk Cloud: A cloud-hosted tool used to collect, search, and monitor log data

Splunk Enterprise: A self-hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time



Video: Phases of an incident response playbook
Previously, we discussed how SIEM tools are used to help protect an organization's critical assets and data. In this video, we'll introduce another important tool for maintaining an organization's security, known as a playbook.
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action. Playbooks also clarify what tools should be used in response to a security incident. In the security field, playbooks are essential.
Urgency, efficiency, and accuracy are necessary to quickly identify and mitigate a security threat to reduce potential risk. Playbooks ensure that people follow a consistent list of actions in a prescribed way, regardless of who is working on the case.
Different types of playbooks are used. These include playbooks for incident response, security alerts, teams-specific, and product-specific purposes.
Here, we'll focus on a playbook that's commonly used in cybersecurity, called an incident response playbook. Incident response is an organization's quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage, and correct the effects of a security breach. An incident response playbook is a guide with six phases used to help mitigate and manage security incidents from beginning to end. Let's discuss each phase.
The first phase is preparation. Organizations must prepare to mitigate the likelihood, risk, and impact of a security incident by documenting procedures, establishing staffing plans, and educating users. Preparation sets the foundation for successful incident response. For example, organizations can create incident response plans and procedures that outline the roles and responsibilities of each security team member.
The second phase is detection and analysis. The objective of this phase is to detect and analyze events using defined processes and technology. Using appropriate tools and strategies during this phase helps security analysts determine whether a breach has occurred and analyze its possible magnitude.
The third phase is containment. The goal of containment is to prevent further damage and reduce the immediate impact of a security incident. During this phase, security professionals take actions to contain an incident and minimize damage. Containment is a high priority for organizations because it helps prevent ongoing risks to critical assets and data.
The fourth phase in an incident response playbook is eradication and recovery. This phase involves the complete removal of an incident's artifacts so that an organization can return to normal operations. During this phase, security professionals eliminate artifacts of the incident by removing malicious code and mitigating vulnerabilities. Once they've exercised due diligence, they can begin to restore the affected environment to a secure state. This is also known as IT restoration.
The fifth phase is post-incident activity. This phase includes documenting the incident, informing organizational leadership, and applying lessons learned to ensure that an organization is better prepared to handle future incidents. Depending on the severity of the incident, organizations can conduct a full-scale incident analysis to determine the root cause of the incident and implement various updates or improvements to enhance its overall security posture.
The sixth and final phase in an incident response playbook is coordination. Coordination involves reporting incidents and sharing information, throughout the incident response process, based on the organization's established standards. Coordination is important for many reasons. It ensures that organizations meet compliance requirements and it allows for coordinated response and resolution.
There are many ways security professionals may be alerted to an incident. You recently learned about SIEM tools and how they collect and analyze data. They use this data to detect threats and generate alerts, which can inform the security team of a potential incident. Then, when a security analyst receives a SIEM alert, they can use the appropriate playbook to guide the response process. SIEM tools and playbooks work together to provide a structured and efficient way of responding to potential security incidents.
Throughout the program, you'll have opportunities to continue to build your understanding of these important concepts.


Text Content: More about playbooks
Previously, you learned that playbooks are tools used by cybersecurity professionals to identify and respond to security issues. In this reading, you’ll learn more about playbooks and their purpose in the field of cybersecurity.

Playbook overview
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action. Essentially, a playbook provides a predefined and up-to-date list of steps to perform when responding to an incident.

An analyst using a playbook.
Playbooks are accompanied by a strategy. The strategy outlines expectations of team members who are assigned a task, and some playbooks also list the individuals responsible. The outlined expectations are accompanied by a plan. The plan dictates how the specific task outlined in the playbook must be completed.

Playbooks should be treated as living documents, which means that they are frequently updated by security team members to address industry changes and new threats. Playbooks are generally managed as a collaborative effort, since security team members have different levels of expertise.

Updates are often made if:

A failure is identified, such as an oversight in the outlined policies and procedures, or in the playbook itself.

There is a change in industry standards, such as changes in laws or regulatory compliance.

The cybersecurity landscape changes due to evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

Types of playbooks
Playbooks sometimes cover specific incidents and vulnerabilities. These might include ransomware, vishing, business email compromise (BEC), and other attacks previously discussed. Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are very common, but they are not the only types of playbooks organizations develop.

Each organization has a different set of playbook tools, methodologies, protocols, and procedures that they adhere to, and different individuals are involved at each step of the response process, depending on the country they are in. For example, incident notification requirements from government-imposed laws and regulations, along with compliance standards, affect the content in the playbooks. These requirements are subject to change based on where the incident originated and the type of data affected.

Incident and vulnerability response playbooks
Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are commonly used by entry-level cybersecurity professionals. They are developed based on the goals outlined in an organization’s business continuity plan. A business continuity plan is an established path forward allowing a business to recover and continue to operate as normal, despite a disruption like a security breach.

These two types of playbooks are similar in that they both contain predefined and up-to-date lists of steps to perform when responding to an incident. Following these steps is necessary to ensure that you, as a security professional, are adhering to legal and organizational standards and protocols. These playbooks also help minimize errors and ensure that important actions are performed within a specific timeframe.

When an incident, threat, or vulnerability occurs or is identified, the level of risk to the organization depends on the potential damage to its assets. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. For this reason, a sense of urgency is essential. Following the steps outlined in playbooks is also important if any forensic task is being carried out. Mishandling data can easily compromise forensic data, rendering it unusable.

Common steps included in incident and vulnerability playbooks include:

Preparation

Detection

Analysis

Containment

Eradication

Recovery from an incident

Additional steps include performing post-incident activities, and a coordination of efforts throughout the investigation and incident and vulnerability response stages.

Key takeaways
It is essential to refine processes and procedures outlined in a playbook. With every documented incident, cybersecurity teams need to consider what was learned from the incident and what improvements should be made to handle incidents more effectively in the future. Playbooks create structure and ensure compliance with the law.



Text Content: Identify: Phases of an incident response playbook

Preperation
Before incidents occur, mitigate potential impacts on the organization by documenting, establishing staffing plans, and educating users.

Detection and analysis
Detect and analyze events by implementing defined processes and appropriate technology.

Containment
Prevent further damage and reduce immediate impact of incidents.

Eradication and recovery
Completely remove artifacts of the incident so that an organization can return to normal operations.

Post-incident activity
Document the incident, inform organizational leadership, and apply lessons learned.

Coordination
Report incidents and share information throughout the response process, based on established standards.


Quiz: Test your knowledge: Incident response

Q: In the event of a security incident, when would it be appropriate to refer to an incident response playbook?
A: In the event of a security incident, it is appropriate to refer to an incident response playbook throughout the entire incident. An incident response playbook is a guide with six phases used to help mitigate and manage security incidents from beginning to end.

Q: Fill in the blank: During the _____ phase, security professionals use tools and strategies to determine whether a breach has occurred and to evaluate its potential magnitude.
A: During the detection and analysis phase, security professionals use tools and strategies to determine whether a breach has occurred and to evaluate its potential magnitude.

Q: In which incident response playbook phase would a security team document an incident to ensure that their organization is better prepared to handle future security events?
A: In the post-incident activity phase, a security team documents an incident to ensure that their organization is better prepared to handle future incidents.

Q: What is the relationship between SIEM tools and playbooks?
A: SIEM tools and playbooks work together to provide a structured and efficient way of responding to security incidents.


Video: Use a playbook to respond to threats, risks, or vulnerabilities
Welcome back! In this video, we're going to revisit SIEM tools and how they're used alongside playbooks to reduce organizational threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
An incident response playbook is a guide that helps security professionals mitigate issues with a heightened sense of urgency, while maintaining accuracy. Playbooks create structure, ensure compliance, and outline processes for communication and documentation. Organizations may use different types of incident response playbooks depending on the situation. For example, an organization may have specific playbooks for addressing different types of attacks, such as ransomware, malware, distributed denial of service, and more.
To start, let's discuss how a security analyst might use a playbook to address a SIEM alert, like a potential malware attack. In this situation, a playbook is invaluable for guiding an analyst through the necessary actions to properly address the alert.
The first action in the playbook is to assess the alert. This means determining if the alert is actually valid by identifying why the alert was generated by the SIEM. This can be done by analyzing log data and related metrics.
Next, the playbook outlines the actions and tools to use to contain the malware and reduce further damage. For example, this playbook instructs the analyst to isolate, or disconnect, the infected network system to prevent the malware from spreading into other parts of the network.
After containing the incident, step three of the playbook describes ways to eliminate all traces of the incident and restore the affected systems back to normal operations. For example, the playbook might instruct the analyst to restore the impacted operating system, then restore the affected data using a clean backup, created before the malware outbreak.
Finally, once the incident has been resolved, step four of the playbook instructs the analyst to perform various post-incident activities and coordination efforts with the security team. Some actions include creating a final report to communicate the security incident to stakeholders, or reporting the incident to the appropriate authorities, like the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigations or other agencies that investigate cyber crimes.
This is just one example of how you might follow the steps in a playbook, since organizations develop their own internal procedures for addressing security incidents. What's most important to understand is that playbooks provide a consistent process for security professionals to follow.
Note that playbooks are living documents, meaning the security team will make frequent changes, updates, and improvements to address new threats and vulnerabilities. In addition, organizations learn from past security incidents to improve their security posture, refine policies and procedures, and reduce the likelihood and impact of future incidents. Then, they update their playbooks accordingly.
As an entry-level security analyst, you may be required to use playbooks frequently, especially when monitoring networks and responding to incidents. Having an understanding of why playbooks are important and how they can help you achieve your working objectives will help ensure your success within this field.


Text Content: Playbooks, SIEM tools, and SOAR tools
Previously, you learned that security teams encounter threats, risks, vulnerabilities, and incidents on a regular basis and that they follow playbooks to address security-related issues. In this reading, you will learn more about playbooks, including how they are used in security information and event management (SIEM) and security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR).

Playbooks and SIEM tools
Playbooks are used by cybersecurity teams in the event of an incident. Playbooks help security teams respond to incidents by ensuring that a consistent list of actions are followed in a prescribed way, regardless of who is working on the case. Playbooks can be very detailed and may include flow charts and tables to clarify what actions to take and in which order. Playbooks are also used for recovery procedures in the event of a ransomware attack. Different types of security incidents have their own playbooks that detail who should take what action and when.

Playbooks are generally used alongside SIEM tools. If, for example, unusual user behavior is flagged by a SIEM tool, a playbook provides analysts with instructions about how to address the issue.

Playbooks and SOAR tools
Playbooks are also used with SOAR tools. SOAR tools are similar to SIEM tools in that they are used for threat monitoring. SOAR is a piece of software used to automate repetitive tasks generated by tools such as a SIEM or managed detection and response (MDR). For example, if a user attempts to log into their computer too many times with the wrong password, a SOAR would automatically block their account to stop a possible intrusion. Then, analysts would refer to a playbook to take steps to resolve the issue.

Key takeaways
What is most important to know is that playbooks, also sometimes referred to as runbooks, provide detailed actions for security teams to take in the event of an incident. Knowing exactly who needs to do what and when can help reduce the impact of an incident and reduce the risk of damage to an organization’s critical assets.


Text Content: Practice: Respond to a SIEM alert

You’re monitoring a SIEM dashboard and receive an alert about a suspicious file download. What’s the first thing you should do?
The first thing you should do is assess the alert to determine if it’s valid.

You determine that the suspicious file download alert is valid, so you follow the steps in your organization’s playbook to contain and eliminate traces of the incident. What should you do next?
After containing and eliminating traces of the incident, you should restore affected systems.

After you’ve taken all the necessary steps outlined in your organization’s playbook to resolve the incident, what should you do?
After the incident is resolved, you should perform post-incident and coordination efforts.

Text Content: Course 2 Glossary
Glossary
Cybersecurity

Terms and definitions from Course 2

A
Assess: The fifth step of the NIST RMF that means to determine if established controls
are implemented correctly
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization
Attack vectors: The pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses
Authentication: The process of verifying who someone is
Authorization: The concept of granting access to specific resources in a system
Authorize: The sixth step of the NIST RMF that refers to being accountable for the
security and privacy risks that might exist in an organization
Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it

B
Biometrics: The unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person’s
identity
Business continuity: An organization's ability to maintain their everyday productivity
by establishing risk disaster recovery plans

C
Categorize: The second step of the NIST RMF that is used to develop risk
management processes and tasks
Chronicle: A cloud-native tool designed to retain, analyze, and search data
Confidentiality: The idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data
Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how
organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies

D
Detect: A NIST core function related to identifying potential security incidents and
improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections

E
Encryption: The process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded
format
External threat: Anything outside the organization that has the potential to harm
organizational assets

I
Identify: A NIST core function related to management of cybersecurity risk and its
effect on an organization’s people and assets
Implement: The fourth step of the NIST RMF that means to implement security and
privacy plans for an organization
Incident response: An organization’s quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the
damage, and correct the effects of a security breach

Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable
Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who
poses a security risk

L
Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems

M
Metrics: Key technical attributes such as response time, availability, and failure rate,
which are used to assess the performance of a software application
Monitor: The seventh step of the NIST RMF that means be aware of how systems are
operating

N
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework
(CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best
practices to manage cybersecurity risk
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (S.P.)
800-53: A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within
the U.S. federal government

O
Open Web Application Security Project/Open Worldwide Application Security
Project (OWASP): A non-profit organization focused on improving software security
Operating system (OS): The interface between computer hardware and the user

P
Playbook: A manual that provides details about any operational action
Prepare: The first step of the NIST RMF related to activities that are necessary to
manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs
Protect: A NIST core function used to protect an organization through the
implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate
cybersecurity threats

R
Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization’s data
and demand payment to restore access
Recover: A NIST core function related to returning affected systems back to normal
operation
Respond: A NIST core function related to making sure that the proper procedures are
used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement
improvements to the security process
Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset
Risk mitigation: The process of having the right procedures and rules in place to
quickly reduce the impact of a risk like a breach

S
Security audit: A review of an organization's security controls, policies, and
procedures against a set of expectations
Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks
Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and
threats to data and privacy

Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects
and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization
Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR): A collection of
applications, tools, and workflows that use automation to respond to security events
Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and
data and react to change
Select: The third step of the NIST RMF that means to choose, customize, and capture
documentation of the controls that protect an organization
Shared responsibility: The idea that all individuals within an organization take an
active role in lowering risk and maintaining both physical and virtual security
SIEM tools: A software platform that collects, analyzes, and correlates security data
from various sources across your IT infrastructure that helps identify and respond to
security threats in real-time, investigate security incidents, and comply with security
regulations
Social engineering: A manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain
private information, access, or valuables
Splunk Cloud: A cloud-hosted tool used to collect, search, and monitor log data
Splunk Enterprise: A self-hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an
organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time

T
Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets

V
Vulnerability: A weakness that can be exploited by a threat