Video Transcripts and Text Content in course "Foundations of Cybersecurity"

Video: Welcome to module 3
Hi there, glad to have you back! You're halfway done with the first course, so you're making great progress.
In this section, we'll discuss how organizations protect themselves from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities by covering key principles such as: frameworks, controls, and ethics. To help you better understand how this relates to the role of a security analyst, we'll use an analogy.
Imagine you want to plant a garden. You research, plan, prepare, and purchase materials while considering all the things that could potentially present a risk to your garden. You establish a plan to pull weeds, spray for bugs, and water your plants regularly to prevent issues or incidents. But as the days go by, unexpected problems arise. The weather has been unpredictable and pests have been aggressively trying to infiltrate your garden.
You start implementing better ways to safeguard your garden by installing a surveillance camera, building a fence, and covering your plants with a canopy to keep your garden healthy and growing. Now that you have a better idea about the threats to your garden and how to keep your plants safe, you establish better policies and procedures to continuously monitor and safeguard your garden.
In this way, security resembles a garden. It's an evolving industry that will challenge you to make continuous improvements to policies and procedures that help protect your organization and the people it serves.
To that end, we'll introduce security frameworks and controls and explain why they're important. We'll also cover core components and specific examples of frameworks and controls, including the Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability Triad, or CIA Triad. We'll end with the discussion about the ethics of security and share a few notable ethical concerns in the security field.
Evolving security practices may seem a little abstract, but many of us use them every day. For example, I use security keys, which are a type of security control, as a second form of authentication to access my accounts. The keys ensure that only I can access my accounts, even if a password has been compromised. By improving confidentiality, they also assure me that the integrity of my accounts is intact.
Having processes and procedures in place to organize security efforts and make informed decisions is important for any organization. I'm so excited to get started, and I hope you are too!
en


Video: Introduction to security frameworks and controls
Imagine you're working as a security analyst and receive multiple alerts about suspicious activity on the network. You realize that you'll need to implement additional security measures to keep these alerts from becoming serious incidents. But where do you start?
As an analyst, you'll start by identifying your organization's critical assets and risks. Then you'll implement the necessary frameworks and controls.
In this video, we'll discuss how security professionals use frameworks to continuously identify and manage risk. We'll also cover how to use security controls to manage or reduce specific risks.
Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. Security frameworks provide a structured approach to implementing a security lifecycle. The security lifecycle is a constantly evolving set of policies and standards that define how an organization manages risks, follows established guidelines, and meets regulatory compliance, or laws.
There are several security frameworks that may be used to manage different types of organizational and regulatory compliance risks. The purpose of security frameworks include protecting personally identifiable information, known as PII, securing financial information, identifying security weaknesses, managing organizational risks, and aligning security with business goals.
Frameworks have four core components and understanding them will allow you to better manage potential risks. The first core component is identifying and documenting security goals. For example, an organization may have a goal to align with the E.U.'s General Data Protection Regulation, also known as GDPR. GDPR is a data protection law established to grant European citizens more control over their personal data. A security analyst may be asked to identify and document areas where an organization is out of compliance with GDPR.
The second core component is setting guidelines to achieve security goals. For example, when implementing guidelines to achieve GDPR compliance, your organization may need to develop new policies for how to handle data requests from individual users.
The third core component of security frameworks is implementing strong security processes. In the case of GDPR, a security analyst working for a social media company may help design procedures to ensure the organization complies with verified user data requests. An example of this type of request is when a user attempts to update or delete their profile information.
The last core component of security frameworks is monitoring and communicating results. As an example, you may monitor your organization's internal network and report a potential security issue affecting GDPR to your manager or regulatory compliance officer.
Now that we've introduced the four core components of security frameworks, let's tie them all together. Frameworks allow analysts to work alongside other members of the security team to document, implement, and use the policies and procedures that have been created. It's essential for an entry-level analyst to understand this process because it directly affects the work they do and how they collaborate with others. Next, we'll discuss security controls.
Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. For example, your company may have a guideline that requires all employees to complete a privacy training to reduce the risk of data breaches. As a security analyst, you may use a software tool to automatically assign and track which employees have completed this training.
Security frameworks and controls are vital to managing security for all types of organizations and ensuring that everyone is doing their part to maintain a low level of risk.
Understanding their purpose and how they are used allows analysts to support an organization's security goals and protect the people it serves.
In the following videos, we'll discuss some well-known frameworks and principles that analysts need to be aware of to minimize risk and protect data and users.


Video: Secure design
Hi, welcome back! Previously, we discussed frameworks and controls in general. In this video, you'll learn about specific frameworks and controls that organizations can voluntarily use to minimize risks to their data and to protect users. Let's get started!
The CIA triad is a foundational model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. CIA stands for confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
Confidentiality means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. For example, strict access controls that define who should and should not have access to data, must be put in place to ensure confidential data remains safe.
Integrity means the data is correct, authentic, and reliable. To maintain integrity, security professionals can use a form of data protection like encryption to safeguard data from being tampered with.
Availability means data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it. Let's define a term that came up during our discussion of the CIA triad:
asset.
An asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization.
And value is determined by the cost associated with the asset in question.
For example, an application that stores sensitive data, such as social security numbers or bank accounts, is a valuable asset to an organization. It carries more risk and therefore requires tighter security controls in comparison to a website that shares publicly available news content. As you may remember, earlier in the course, we discussed frameworks and controls in general. Now, we'll discuss a specific framework developed by the U.S.-based National Institute of Standards and Technology: the Cybersecurity Framework, also referred to as the NIST CSF. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.
It's important to become familiar with this framework because security teams use it as
a baseline to manage short and long-term risk. Managing and mitigating risks and protecting an organization's assets from threat actors are key goals for security professionals. Understanding the different motives a threat actor may have, alongside identifying your organization's most valuable assets is important. Some of the most dangerous threat actors to consider are disgruntled employees. They are the most dangerous because they often have access to sensitive information and know where to find it. In order to reduce this type of risk, security professionals would use the principle of availability, as well as organizational guidelines based on frameworks to ensure staff members can only access the data they need to perform their jobs.
Threat actors originate from all across the globe, and a diverse workforce of security professionals helps organizations identify attackers' intentions. A variety of perspectives can assist organizations in understanding and mitigating the impact of malicious activity. That concludes our introduction to the CIA triad and NIST CSF framework, which are used to develop processes to secure organizations and the people they serve. You may be asked in an interview if you know about security frameworks and principles. Or you may be asked to explain how they're used to secure organizational assets. In either case, throughout this program, you'll have multiple opportunities to learn more about them and apply what we've discussed to real-world situations. Coming up, we'll discuss the ethics of security. See you soon!

Text Content: Controls, frameworks, and compliance
Previously, you were introduced to security frameworks and how they provide a structured approach to implementing a security lifecycle. As a reminder, a security lifecycle is a constantly evolving set of policies and standards. In this reading, you will learn more about how security frameworks, controls, and compliance regulations—or laws—are used together to manage security and make sure everyone does their part to minimize risk.

How controls, frameworks, and compliance are related
The confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies.

A triangle representing the CIA (confidentiality, integrity, availability) triad
CIA are the three foundational principles used by cybersecurity professionals to establish appropriate controls that mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

As you may recall, security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. So they are used alongside frameworks to ensure that security goals and processes are implemented correctly and that organizations meet regulatory compliance requirements.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. They have four core components:

Identifying and documenting security goals

Setting guidelines to achieve security goals

Implementing strong security processes

Monitoring and communicating results

Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.

Specific controls, frameworks, and compliance
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a U.S.-based agency that develops multiple voluntary compliance frameworks that organizations worldwide can use to help manage risk. The more aligned an organization is with compliance, the lower the risk.

Examples of frameworks include the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF).

Note: Specifications and guidelines can change depending on the type of organization you work for.

In addition to the
NIST CSF
 and
NIST RMF
, there are several other controls, frameworks, and compliance standards that are important for security professionals to be familiar with to help keep organizations and the people they serve safe.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)
FERC-NERC is a regulation that applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid. These types of organizations have an obligation to prepare for, mitigate, and report any potential security incident that can negatively affect the power grid. They are also legally required to adhere to the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards defined by the FERC.

The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)
FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, and handling of cloud services and product offerings. Its purpose is to provide consistency across the government sector and third-party cloud providers.

Center for Internet Security (CIS®)
CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard systems and networks against attacks. Its purpose is to help organizations establish a better plan of defense. CIS also provides actionable controls that security professionals may follow if a security incident occurs.

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. For example, if an organization is not being transparent about the data they are holding about an E.U. citizen and why they are holding that data, this is an infringement that can result in a fine to the organization. Additionally, if a breach occurs and an E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, they must be informed. The affected organization has 72 hours to notify the E.U. citizen about the breach.

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is to reduce credit card fraud.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules:

Privacy

Security

Breach notification

Organizations that store patient data have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach because if patients' Protected Health Information (PHI) is exposed, it can lead to identity theft and insurance fraud. PHI relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, whether it’s a plan of care or payments for care. Along with understanding HIPAA as a law, security professionals also need to be familiar with the Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST®), which is a security framework and assurance program that helps institutions meet HIPAA compliance.

International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services.

System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels such as:

Associate

Supervisor

Manager

Executive

Vendor

Others

They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.

Pro tip: There are a number of regulations that are frequently revised. You are encouraged to keep up-to-date with changes and explore more frameworks, controls, and compliance. Two suggestions to research: the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

United States Presidential Executive Order 14028
On May 12, 2021, President Joe Biden released an executive order related to improving the nation’s cybersecurity to remediate the increase in threat actor activity. Remediation efforts are directed toward federal agencies and third parties with ties to U.S.
critical infrastructure
. For additional information, review the
Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity
.

Key takeaways
In this reading you learned more about controls, frameworks, and compliance. You also learned how they work together to help organizations maintain a low level of risk.

As a security analyst, it’s important to stay up-to-date on common frameworks, controls, and compliance regulations and be aware of changes to the cybersecurity landscape to help ensure the safety of both organizations and people.


Video: Heather: Protect sensitive data and information
Hello, my name is Heather and I'm the Vice President of Security Engineering at Google. PII has been an important topic on the internet since the beginning of the internet. And we have been talking about increasingly sophisticated ways to protect that data over time. When we think about collecting PII on behalf of another person, we should make sure we're very deliberate about how it's handled and where it's stored, and that we understand where it's stored all the time. Depending on what kind of role you're in, you might also need to protect that data to comply with regulation or law. And so, it's important to understand how the data relates to some of those obligations. If an organization fails to meet their obligations, a number of things might happen. First, you might see a government regulator become more interested in understanding the practices around how a company is handling data. Secondly, consumers, customers, businesses may actually begin to directly inquire of the company how they're handling data. And this may become part of the customer relationship and increasingly important if that data is very sensitive. And third, the last consequence is legal action. And it's not uncommon for us to see victims of cybersecurity incidents now suing companies for mishandling their data. You can keep up to date with compliance, regulation and laws around PII by consulting the relevant website in the jurisdiction that you have a question for. Many government websites now post the laws, regulations, and compliance requirements for data that's being handled. The regulations and laws that govern how PII can be handled are very complex, all over the world, countries, states, counties are regulating it at different levels. It's important to understand and to be aware that these laws exist. However, if you need to ask a question about a specific law, it's important to seek advice from legal counsel for that particular jurisdiction. It may be very different than the jurisdiction that you're in.

Video: Ethics in cybersecurity
0:00
In security, new technologies present new challenges. For every new security incident or risk, the right or wrong decision isn't always clear.
For example, imagine that you're working as an entry-level security analyst and you have received a high risk alert. You investigate the alert and discover data has been transferred without authorization.
You work diligently to identify who made the transfer and discover it is one of your friends from work. What do you do?
Ethically, as a security professional, your job is to remain unbiased and maintain security and confidentiality.
While it's normal to want to protect a friend, regardless of who the user in question may be, your responsibility and obligation is to adhere to the policies and protocols you've been trained to follow. In many cases, security teams are entrusted with greater access to data and information than other employees. Security professionals must respect that privilege and act ethically at all times.
Security ethics are guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional. As another example, if you as an analyst have the ability to grant yourself access to payroll data and can give yourself a raise, just because you have access to do so, does that mean you should? The answer is no. You should never abuse the access you've been granted and entrusted with.
Let's discuss ethical principles that may raise questions as you navigate solutions for mitigating risks. These are confidentiality, privacy protections, and laws.
Let's begin with the first ethical principle, confidentiality. Earlier we discussed confidentiality as part of the CIA triad. Now let's discuss how confidentiality can be applied to ethics. As a security professional, you'll encounter proprietary or private information, such as PII. It's your ethical duty to keep that information confidential and safe. For example, you may want to help out a coworker by providing computer system access outside of properly documented channels. However, this ethical violation can result in serious consequences, including reprimands, the loss of your professional reputation, and legal repercussions for both you and your friend.
The second ethical principle to consider is privacy protections. Privacy protection means safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use. For example, imagine you receive a personal email after hours from your manager requesting a colleague's home phone number. Your manager explains that they can't access the employee database at the moment, but they need to discuss an urgent matter with that person.
As a security analyst, your role is to follow the policies and procedures of your company, which in this example, state that employee information is stored in a secure database and should never be accessed or shared in any other format. So, accessing and sharing the employee's personal information would be unethical. In situations like this, it can be difficult to know what to do. So, the best response is to adhere to the policies and procedures set by your organization.
A third important ethical principle we must discuss is the law. Laws are rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity.
For example, consider a staff member at a hospital who has been trained to handle PII, and SPII for compliance. The staff member has files with confidential data that should never be left unsupervised, but the staff member is late for a meeting. Instead of locking the files in a designated area, the files are left on the staff member's desk, unsupervised. Upon the employee's return, the files are missing. The staff member has just violated multiple compliance regulations, and their actions were unethical and illegal, since their negligence has likely resulted in the loss of private patient and hospital data.
As you enter the security field, remember that technology is constantly evolving, and so are attackers' tactics and techniques. Because of this, security professionals must continue to think critically about how to respond to attacks.
Having a strong sense of ethics can guide your decisions to ensure that the proper processes and procedures are followed to mitigate these continually evolving risks.


Text Content: Ethical concepts that guide cybersecurity decisions
Previously, you were introduced to the concept of security ethics. Security ethics are guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional. Being ethical requires that security professionals remain unbiased and maintain the security and confidentiality of private data. Having a strong sense of ethics can help you navigate your decisions as a cybersecurity professional so you’re able to mitigate threats posed by threat actors’ constantly evolving tactics and techniques. In this reading, you’ll learn about more ethical concepts that are essential to know so you can make appropriate decisions about how to legally and ethically respond to attacks in a way that protects organizations and people alike.

Ethical concerns and laws related to counterattacks
United States standpoint on counterattacks
In the U.S., deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal because of laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, among others. You can only defend. The act of counterattacking in the U.S. is perceived as an act of vigilantism. A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a crime on their own. And because threat actors are criminals, counterattacks can lead to further escalation of the attack, which can cause even more damage and harm. Lastly, if the threat actor in question is a state-sponsored hacktivist, a counterattack can lead to serious international implications. A hacktivist is a person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal. The political goal may be to promote social change or civil disobedience.

For these reasons, the only individuals in the U.S. who are allowed to counterattack are approved employees of the federal government or military personnel.

International standpoint on counterattacks
The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if:

The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.

The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.

The counterattack does not escalate the situation.

The counterattack effects can be reversed.

Organizations typically do not counterattack because the above scenarios and parameters are hard to measure. There is a lot of uncertainty dictating what is and is not lawful, and at times negative outcomes are very difficult to control. Counterattack actions generally lead to a worse outcome, especially when you are not an experienced professional in the field.

To learn more about specific scenarios and ethical concerns from an international perspective, review updates provided in the
Tallinn Manual online
.

Ethical principles and methodologies
Because counterattacks are generally disapproved of or illegal, the security realm has created frameworks and controls—such as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad and others discussed earlier in the program—to address issues of confidentiality, privacy protections, and laws. To better understand the relationship between these issues and the ethical obligations of cybersecurity professionals, review the following key concepts as they relate to using ethics to protect organizations and the people they serve.

Confidentiality means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. Confidentiality as it relates to professional ethics means that there needs to be a high level of respect for privacy to safeguard private assets and data.

Privacy protection means safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use. Personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII) are types of personal data that can cause people harm if they are stolen. PII data is any information used to infer an individual's identity, like their name and phone number. SPII data is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines, including social security numbers and credit card numbers. To effectively safeguard PII and SPII data, security professionals hold an ethical obligation to secure private information, identify security vulnerabilities, manage organizational risks, and align security with business goals.

Laws are rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity. As a security professional, you will have an ethical obligation to protect your organization, its internal infrastructure, and the people involved with the organization. To do this:

You must remain unbiased and conduct your work honestly, responsibly, and with the highest respect for the law.

Be transparent and just, and rely on evidence.

Ensure that you are consistently invested in the work you are doing, so you can appropriately and ethically address issues that arise.

Stay informed and strive to advance your skills, so you can contribute to the betterment of the cyber landscape.

 As an example, consider the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which is a U.S. federal law established to protect patients' health information, also known as PHI, or protected health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. So, as a security professional, you might help ensure that the organization you work for adheres to both its legal and ethical obligation to inform patients of a breach if their health care data is exposed.

Key takeaways
As a future security professional, ethics will play a large role in your daily work. Understanding ethics and laws will help you make the correct choices if and when you encounter a security threat or an incident that results in a breach


Text Content: Practice: Ethics for cybersecurity professionals
Explore security ethics
Review the scenario and identify the best response by selecting an answer from the list.
Scenario
You work for a hospital as a security analyst.

One day, you log into your work computer and see a ransom note displayed on your screen. Access to files and applications is locked.

You realize this is a ransomware attack.

Immediately contact your supervisor
Ethical principles dictate that you follow the law as well as the standards and procedures established by your organization.

Explore security ethics
Review the scenario and identify the best response by selecting an answer from the list.
Scenario
A doctor you work with claims to have laptop performance issues, so you try to identify the problem.

As you’re working, you notice the doctor’s laptop has unsecured patient files visible on-screen instead of within the medical practice’s secure software.

Immediately secure the patient files
Unsecured patient files violate compliance standards, legal security ethics, and HIPAA regulations.

Explore security ethics
Review the scenario and identify the best response by selecting an answer from the list.
Scenario
You work for a medical device company as an entry-level security analyst.

Your supervisor has asked you to securely dispose of old developer laptops, and tells you they may contain PII (personally identifiable information).

Remove the laptop hard drives and irreversibly erase all data
Ethical standards dictate that PII data must be properly removed from decommissioned devices.


Explore security ethics
Review the scenario and identify the best response by selecting an answer from the list.
Scenario
You work as an entry-level analyst for a pharmaceutical company.

You receive SIEM tool alerts about unusual employee activity.

You check their account activity and observe them copying confidential files to an external folder linked to an unknown destination.

Follow provided procedures to address the issue
The ethical response is to follow the organization's procedures to address the issue and maintain confidentiality


Video: Holly: The importance of ethics as a cybersecurity professional
Hi, I'm Holly and I'm a Cloud Security Architect with Google Cloud. At the beginning of my adult career, I sold hosiery while I was going to school. That led me into an opportunity to work in banking, which then led me into an opportunity to work in telecommunications. From there I managed to get myself into a security vendor and learn security. Part of the way that I was able to change from my original half of my tech career being a database administrator to getting into cybersecurity was through getting certificates like you're doing today. Those really helped me gain credibility with potential employers when I didn't have the experience in this particular field yet. Ethics are really the crux of cybersecurity, you need to be able to be ethical in all of your actions in order to be a cybersecurity professional. Examples of unethical behavior are usually honestly just slight laziness, people taking shortcuts and not really thinking about the consequences of their actions. So, certainly when people share passwords to systems or give out private information, or look into systems for their own personal information or purposes about people they know or about celebrities. One of the most difficult situations that I ever faced in my technology career related to ethics was shortly after 9/11, my boss's boss's boss came to me with a bunch of keywords that were clearly related to the attack in New York and asked me to query the database that I administered that had everybody's text messages in it for the entire telecommunications company without anything in writing and without a court order. I was in a very uncomfortable position to tell someone that much senior than me that I wasn't comfortable doing that. I suggested that he bring something in writing to me to do that and he found someone else who did it for him. When you're faced with one of these difficult decisions, it's good to think about what would be the consequences of your decision. My encouragement to those of you out here taking this program is that the rewards that you get from helping to protect your company or your users or your organization from cyber criminals is really great. We get to be the good guys and help protect our industry and our customers from cyber attacks and cyber criminals. That's rewarding.

Glossary terms from module 3
Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 3
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization

Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it

Compliance: The process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations

Confidentiality: The idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data

Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies

Hacktivist: A person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA): A U.S. federal law established to protect patients' health information

Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework (CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk

Privacy protection: The act of safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use

Protected health information (PHI): Information that relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual

Security architecture: A type of security design composed of multiple components, such as tools and processes, that are used to protect an organization from risks and external threats

Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks

Security ethics: Guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional

Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy

Security governance: Practices that help support, define, and direct security efforts of an organization

Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines


Video: Welcome to Module 4
Welcome to the final section of this course! Here, we'll be introducing tools and programming languages that are commonly used in the security field. They are essential for monitoring security in an organization because they enhance efficiency by automating tasks. Although we're only introducing these concepts and tools at this point, later in the program, you'll have opportunities to use them in a variety of hands-on activities.
In the following videos, you'll learn about security information and event management, or SIEM, tools. You'll also be introduced to other tools such as playbooks and network protocol analyzers.
Then, you'll learn about the Linux operating system and security-related tasks that are initiated through programming languages, such as SQL and Python.
For me, SQL is one of the most useful tools. It allows me to explore all the different data sources we collect, and it allows my team to analyze the data for trends.
Take your time going through the videos and if you need to, re-watch them. Also know that these tools will be discussed in much more detail, and you will be able to practice them firsthand, later in the certificate program.
While every organization has their own set of tools and training materials that you'll learn to use on the job, this program will provide you with foundational knowledge that will help you succeed in the security industry. Let's get started!


Video: Common cybersecurity tools
As mentioned earlier, security is like preparing for a storm. If you identify a leak, the color or shape of the bucket you use to catch the water doesn't matter. What is important is mitigating the risks and threats to your home, by using the tools available to you.
As an entry-level security analyst, you'll have a lot of tools in your toolkit that you can use to mitigate potential risks.
In this video, we'll discuss the primary purposes and functions of some commonly used security tools. And later in the program, you'll have hands-on opportunities to practice using them. Before discussing tools further, let's briefly discuss logs, which are the source of data that the tools we'll cover are designed to organize.
A log is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems. Examples of security-related logs include records of employees signing into their computers or accessing web-based services. Logs help security professionals identify vulnerabilities and potential security breaches.
The first tools we'll discuss are security information and event management tools, or SIEM tools. A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. The acronym S-I-E-M may be pronounced as 'sim' or 'seem', but we'll use 'sim' throughout this program. SIEM tools collect real-time, or instant, information, and allow security analysts to identify potential breaches as they happen.
Imagine having to read pages and pages of logs to determine if there are any security threats. Depending on the amount of data, it could take hours or days. SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must review by providing alerts for specific types of risks and threats. Next, let's go over examples of commonly used SIEM tools: Splunk and Chronicle.
Splunk is a data analysis platform, and Splunk Enterprise provides SIEM solutions. Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an organization's log data.
Another SIEM tool is Google's Chronicle. Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool that stores security data for search and analysis. Cloud-native means that Chronicle allows for fast delivery of new features.
Both of these SIEM tools, and SIEMs in general, collect data from multiple places, then analyze and filter that data to allow security teams to prevent and quickly react to potential security threats.
As a security analyst, you may find yourself using SIEM tools to analyze filtered events and patterns, perform incident analysis, or proactively search for threats. Depending on your organization's SIEM setup and risk focus, the tools and how they function may differ, but ultimately, they are all used to mitigate risk.
Other key tools that you will use in your role as a security analyst, and that you'll have hands-on opportunities to use later in the program, are playbooks and network protocol analyzers.
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to an incident. Playbooks, which vary from one organization to the next, guide analysts in how to handle a security incident before, during, and after it has occurred. Playbooks can pertain to security or compliance reviews, access management, and many other organizational tasks that require a documented process from beginning to end.
Another tool you may use as a security analyst is a network protocol analyzer, also called packet sniffer. A packet sniffer is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network. Common network protocol analyzers include tcpdump and Wireshark.
As an entry-level analyst, you don't have to be an expert in these tools. As you continue through this certificate program and get more hands-on practice, you'll continuously build your understanding of how to use these tools to identify, assess, and mitigate risks.


Text Content: Tools for protecting business operations
Previously, you were introduced to several technical skills that security analysts need to develop. You were also introduced to some tools entry-level security analysts may have in their toolkit. In this reading, you’ll learn more about how technical skills and tools help security analysts mitigate risks.

An entry-level analyst’s toolkit
Every organization may provide a different toolkit, depending on its security needs. As a future analyst, it’s important that you are familiar with industry standard tools and can demonstrate your ability to learn how to use similar tools in a potential workplace.

A person with a toolkit with different tools inside
Security information and event management (SIEM) tools

A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems. Depending on the amount of data you’re working with, it could take hours or days to filter through log data on your own. SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must review by providing alerts for specific types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

SIEM tools provide a series of dashboards that visually organize data into categories, allowing users to select the data they wish to analyze. Different SIEM tools have different dashboard types that display the information you have access to.

SIEM tools also come with different hosting options, including on-premise and cloud. Organizations may choose one hosting option over another based on a security team member’s expertise. For example, because a cloud-hosted version tends to be easier to set up, use, and maintain than an on-premise version, a less experienced security team may choose this option for their organization.

Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)
A network protocol analyzer, also known as a packet sniffer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic in a network. This means that the tool keeps a record of all the data that a computer within an organization's network encounters. Later in the program, you’ll have an opportunity to practice using some common network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) tools.

Playbooks
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to a security incident. Organizations usually have multiple playbooks documenting processes and procedures for their teams to follow. Playbooks vary from one organization to the next, but they all have a similar purpose: To guide analysts through a series of steps to complete specific security-related tasks.

For example, consider the following scenario: You are working as a security analyst for an incident response firm. You are given a case involving a small medical practice that has suffered a security breach. Your job is to help with the forensic investigation and provide evidence to a cybersecurity insurance company. They will then use your investigative findings to determine whether the medical practice will receive their insurance payout.

In this scenario, playbooks would outline the specific actions you need to take to conduct the investigation. Playbooks also help ensure that you are following proper protocols and procedures. When working on a forensic case, there are two playbooks you might follow:

The first type of playbook you might consult is called the chain of custody playbook. Chain of custody is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle. As a security analyst involved in a forensic analysis, you will work with the computer data that was breached. You and the forensic team will also need to document who, what, where, and why you have the collected evidence. The evidence is your responsibility while it is in your possession. Evidence must be kept safe and tracked. Every time evidence is moved, it should be reported. This allows all parties involved to know exactly where the evidence is at all times.

The second playbook your team might use is called the protecting and preserving evidence playbook. Protecting and preserving evidence is the process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence. As a security analyst, understanding what fragile and volatile digital evidence is, along with why there is a procedure, is critical. As you follow this playbook, you will consult the order of volatility, which is a sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last. It prioritizes volatile data, which is data that may be lost if the device in question powers off, regardless of the reason. While conducting an investigation, improper management of digital evidence can compromise and alter that evidence. When evidence is improperly managed during an investigation, it can no longer be used. For this reason, the first priority in any investigation is to properly preserve the data. You can preserve the data by making copies and conducting your investigation using those copies.

Key takeaways
In this reading, you learned about a few tools a security analyst may have in their toolkit, depending on where they work. You also explored two important types of playbooks: chain of custody and protecting and preserving evidence. However, these are only two procedures that occur at the beginning of a forensic investigation. If forensic investigations interest you, you are encouraged to further explore this career path or security practice. In the process, you may learn about forensic tools that you want to add to your toolkit. While all of the forensic components that make up an investigation will not be covered in this certificate program, some forensic concepts will be discussed in later courses.

Resources for more information
The Google Cybersecurity Action Team's
Threat Horizon Report
 provides strategic intelligence for dealing with threats to cloud enterprise.

The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has a list of
Free Cybersecurity Services and Tools
. Review the list to learn more about open-source cybersecurity tools

Text Content: Explore: Tools and their purposes

A tool used to visually communicate information or data
Dashboard

A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems
Log

A manual that provides details about what actions to take
Playbook

Application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor an organization’s critical activities
SIEM Tool



Quiz Name: Test your knowledge: Important cybersecurity tools

What tool is designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network?
A packet sniffer, also known as a network protocol analyzer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network.

What type of tool uses dashboards to organize data into categories and allows analysts to identify potential security incidents as they happen?
SIEM tools use dashboards to organize data into categories and allow analysts to identify potential security incidents, such breaches, as they happen.

What can cybersecurity professionals use logs for?
Cybersecurity professionals can use logs to identify vulnerabilities and potential security breaches, as well as other potential security incidents.

Fill in the blank: A _____ is a manual that provides details about operational actions.
A playbook is a manual that provides details about operational actions. Playbooks provide guidance when handling a security incident before, during, and after it has occurred.


Video: Introduction to Linux, SQL, and Python
As we discussed previously, organizations use a variety of tools, such as SIEMs, playbooks, and packet sniffers to better manage, monitor, and analyze security threats. But those aren't the only tools in an analyst's toolkit. Analysts also use programming languages and operating systems to accomplish essential tasks.
In this video, we'll introduce you to Python and SQL programming, and the Linux operating system. All of which you'll have an opportunity to practice using later in the certificate program.
Organizations can use programming to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. Programming allows analysts to complete repetitive tasks and processes with a high degree of accuracy and efficiency. It also helps reduce the risk of human error, and can save hours or days compared to performing the work manually. Now that you're aware of what programming languages are used for, let's discuss a specific and related operating system called Linux, and two programming languages: SQL and Python.
Linux is an open-source, or publicly available, operating system. Unlike other operating systems you may be familiar with, for example MacOS or Windows, Linux relies on a command line as the primary user interface. Linux itself is not a programming language, but it does allow for the use of text-based commands between the user and the operating system. You'll learn more about Linux later in the program.
A common use of Linux for entry-level security analysts is examining logs to better understand what's occurring in a system. For example, you might find yourself using commands to review an error log when investigating uncommonly high network traffic.
Next, let's discuss SQL. SQL stands for Structured Query Language. SQL is a programming language used to create, interact with, and request information from a database. A database is an organized collection of information or data. There may be millions of data points in a database. So an entry-level security analyst would use SQL to filter through the data points to retrieve specific information.
The last programming language we'll introduce is Python. Security professionals can use Python to perform tasks that are repetitive and time-consuming and that require a high level of detail and accuracy.
As a future analyst, it's important to understand that every organization's toolkit may be somewhat different based on their security needs. The main point is that you're familiar with some industry standard tools because that will show employers that you have the ability to learn how to use their tools to protect the organization and the people it serves.
You're doing great! Later in the course, you'll learn more about Linux and programming languages, and you'll practice using these tools in security-related scenarios.

Text Content: Use tools to protect business operations
Previously, you were introduced to programming, operating systems, and tools commonly used by cybersecurity professionals. In this reading, you’ll learn more about programming and operating systems, as well as other tools that entry-level analysts use to help protect organizations and the people they serve.

Tools and their purposes
Programming
Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. Security analysts use programming languages, such as Python, to execute automation. Automation is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort in performing common and repetitive tasks. Automation also helps reduce the risk of human error.

Another programming language used by analysts is called Structured Query Language (SQL). SQL is used to create, interact with, and request information from a database. A database is an organized collection of information or data. There can be millions of data points in a database. A data point is a specific piece of information.

Operating systems
An operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. Linux®, macOS®, and Windows are operating systems. They each offer different functionality and user experiences.

Previously, you were introduced to Linux as an open-source operating system. Open source means that the code is available to the public and allows people to make contributions to improve the software. Linux is not a programming language; however, it does involve the use of a command line within the operating system. A command is an instruction telling the computer to do something. A command-line interface is a text-based user interface that uses commands to interact with the computer. You will learn more about Linux, including the Linux kernel and GNU, in a later course.

Web vulnerability
A web vulnerability is a unique flaw in a web application that a threat actor could exploit by using malicious code or behavior, to allow unauthorized access, data theft, and malware deployment.

To stay up-to-date on the most critical risks to web applications, review the
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10
.

Antivirus software
Antivirus software is a software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses. It is also called anti-malware. Depending on the type of antivirus software, it can scan the memory of a device to find patterns that indicate the presence of malware.

Intrusion detection system
An intrusion detection system (IDS) is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions. The system scans and analyzes network packets, which carry small amounts of data through a network. The small amount of data makes the detection process easier for an IDS to identify potential threats to sensitive data. Other occurrences an IDS might detect can include theft and unauthorized access.

Encryption
Encryption makes data unreadable and difficult to decode for an unauthorized user; its main goal is to ensure confidentiality of private data. Encryption is the process of converting data from a readable format to a cryptographically encoded format. Cryptographic encoding means converting plaintext into secure ciphertext. Plaintext is unencrypted information and secure ciphertext is the result of encryption.

Note: Encoding and encryption serve different purposes. Encoding uses a public conversion algorithm to enable systems that use different data representations to share information.

Penetration testing
Penetration testing, also called pen testing, is the act of participating in a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes. It is a thorough risk assessment that can evaluate and identify external and internal threats as well as weaknesses.

Key takeaways
In this reading, you learned more about programming and operating systems. You were also introduced to several new tools and processes. Every organization selects their own set of tools. Therefore, the more tools you know, the more valuable you are to an organization. Tools help security analysts complete their tasks more efficiently and effectively.

Quiz: Test your knowledge: Core cybersecurity knowledge and skills

What do security professionals use to interact with and request information from a database?
Security professionals use Structured Query Language (SQL) to interact with and request information from a database.

What is programming typically used for? Select two answers.
Programming is typically used to complete repetitive tasks and processes and create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.

Fill in the blank: Linux is an open-source _____ that can be used to examine logs.
Linux is an open-source operating system that can be used to examine logs.

A playbook is a manual that only provides details about how to respond to an incident.
False. A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, including incident response, security or compliance reviews, access management, and many other organizational tasks that require a documented process from beginning to end.


Text Content: Create a cybersecurity portfolio
Throughout this certificate program, you will have multiple opportunities to develop a professional cybersecurity portfolio to showcase your security skills and knowledge.

In this reading, you’ll learn what a portfolio is and why it’s important to develop a professional cybersecurity portfolio. You’ll also learn about options for creating an online or self-hosted portfolio that you can share with potential employers when you begin to look for cybersecurity jobs.

What is a portfolio, and why is it necessary?
Cybersecurity professionals use portfolios to demonstrate their security education, skills, and knowledge. Professionals typically use portfolios when they apply for jobs to show potential employers that they are passionate about their work and can do the job they are applying for. Portfolios are more in depth than a resume, which is typically a one-to-two page summary of relevant education, work experience, and accomplishments. You will have the opportunity to develop a resume, and finalize your portfolio, in the last course of this program.

Options for creating your portfolio
There are many ways to present a portfolio, including self-hosted and online options such as:

Documents folder

Google Drive or Dropbox™

Google Sites

Git repository

Option 1: Documents folder
Description: A documents folder is a folder created and saved to your computer’s hard drive. You manage the folder, subfolders, documents, and images within it.

Document folders allow you to have direct access to your documentation. Ensuring that your professional documents, images, and other information are well organized can save you a lot of time when you’re ready to apply for jobs. For example, you may want to create a main folder titled something like “Professional documents.” Then, within your main folder, you could create subfolders with titles such as:

Resume

Education

Portfolio documents

Cybersecurity tools

Programming

Setup: Document folders can be created in multiple ways, depending on the type of computer you are using. If you’re unsure about how to create a folder on your device, you can search the internet for instructional videos or documents related to the type of computer you use.

Option 2: Google Drive or Dropbox
Description: Google Drive and Dropbox offer similar features that allow you to store your professional documentation on a cloud platform. Both options also have file-sharing features, so you can easily share your portfolio documents with potential employers. Any additions or changes you make to a document within that folder will be updated automatically for anyone with access to your portfolio.

Similar to a documents folder, keeping your Google Drive or Dropbox-based portfolio well organized will be helpful as you begin or progress through your career.

Setup: To learn how to upload and share files on these applications, visit the Google Drive and Dropbox websites for more information.

Option 3: Google Sites
Description: Google Sites and similar website hosting options have a variety of easy-to-use features to help you present your portfolio items, including customizable layouts, responsive webpages, embedded content capabilities, and web publishing.

Responsive webpages automatically adjust their content to fit a variety of devices and screen sizes. This is helpful because potential employers can review your content using any device and your media will display just as you intend. When you’re ready, you can publish your website and receive a unique URL. You can add this link to your resume so hiring managers can easily access your work.

Setup: To learn how to create a website in Google Sites, visit the Google Sites website.

Option 4: Git repository
Description: A Git repository is a folder within a project. In this instance, the project is your portfolio, and you can use your repository to store the documents, labs, and screenshots you complete during each course of the certificate program. There are several Git repository sites you can use, including:

GitLab

Bitbucket™

GitHub

Each Git repository allows you to showcase your skills and knowledge in a customizable space. To create an online project portfolio on any of the repositories listed, you need to use a version of Markdown.

Setup: To learn about how to create a GitHub account and use Markdown, follow the steps outlined in the document
Get started with GitHub
.

Portfolio projects
As previously mentioned, you will have multiple opportunities throughout the certificate program to develop items to include in your portfolio. These opportunities include:

Drafting a professional statement

Conducting a security audit

Analyzing network structure and security

Using Linux commands to manage file permissions

Applying filters to SQL queries

Identifying vulnerabilities for a small business

Documenting incidents with an incident handler’s journal

Importing and parsing a text file in a security-related scenario

Creating or revising a resume

Note: Do not include any private, copyrighted, or proprietary documents in your portfolio. Also, if you use one of the sites described in this reading, keep your site set to “private” until it is finalized.

Key takeaways
Now that you’re aware of some options for creating and hosting a professional portfolio, you can consider these as you develop items for your portfolio throughout the certificate program. The more proactive you are about creating a polished portfolio, the higher your chances of impressing a potential employer and obtaining a new job opportunity in the cybersecurity profession.


Text Content: Portfolio Activity Exemplar: Draft a professional statement
Professional statement exemplar

Fictional persona:
Following is a fictional persona that may represent someone interested in
becoming a cybersecurity analyst.
Melodie is a high school graduate and her strongest subjects in school were
math and science. She enjoys learning and excelled in school. She likes creating
spreadsheets to organize everyday tasks. She also likes analyzing complex tasks.
Melodie has a passion for technology and enjoys helping others. She is
interested in the field of security but has no previous experience. She wants an
entry-level cybersecurity position that will utilize her drive and thirst for
knowledge. She believes the Google Cybersecurity Certificate will make her a
better candidate and will help her develop the professional skills she lacks.
Fictional persona’s draft professional statement:
My name is Melodie. I am driven and passionate about safeguarding people’s
security, including their financial well being. I enjoy working with technology and
analyzing and solving complex problems.


Text Content: Glossary terms from module 4
Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 4
Antivirus software: A software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses

Database: An organized collection of information or data

Data point: A specific piece of information

Intrusion detection system (IDS): An application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions

Linux: An open-source operating system

Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems

Network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer): A tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network

Order of volatility: A sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last

Programming: A process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks

Protecting and preserving evidence: The process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence

Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

SQL (Structured Query Language): A query language used to create, interact with, and request information from a database




Quiz: Module 4 challenge

Q: Which of the following statements correctly describe logs? Select two answers.
Answer:
A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems
A business might log each time an employee signs into their computer.

Q: Which of the following tasks can be performed using SIEM tools? Select three answers.
Answer:
Analyzing filtered events and patterns
Monitoring critical activities
Saving time by reducing the amount of data to be reviewed

Q: A cybersecurity analyst is tasked with proactively searching for threats and performing incident analysis. What type of tool should they use?
A: Security information and event management (SIEM)

Q: Fill in the blank: A security team uses a _____ to help them document organizational processes from beginning to end.
A: playbook

Q: As a security analyst, you are tasked with auditing your organization's network to identify security related issues. How might a network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) help you perform this task?
A: By capturing and analyzing data traffic on the network

Q: What are some key benefits of programming languages? Select all that apply.
Answer:
They complete tasks faster than if working manually.
They reduce the risk of human error.
They can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.

Q: A security team wants to examine logs to understand what is occurring within their systems. Why might they choose Linux to perform this task? Select two answers.
Answer:
It is open source.
It allows for text-based commands by users.

Q: Fill in the blank: A database is a _____ of organized data stored in a computer system.
A: collection

Q: What are some key benefits of using Python to perform security tasks? Select all that apply.
Answer:
It saves time
It helps ensure accuracy.
It clearly maps data.

Text Content: Course 1 Glossary
Glossary
Cybersecurity

Terms and definitions from Course 1
A
Adversarial artificial intelligence: A technique that manipulates artificial intelligence
(AI) and machine learning (ML) technology to conduct attacks more efficiently
Antivirus software: A software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate
malware and viruses
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization
Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it
B
Business Email Compromise (BEC): A type of phishing attack where a threat actor
impersonates a known source to obtain financial advantage
C
Cloud security: The process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly
configured and access to those assets is limited to authorized users
Compliance: The process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations
Computer virus: Malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and
cause damage to data and software
Confidentiality: Only authorized users can access specific assets or data

Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how
organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies
Cryptographic attack: An attack that affects secure forms of communication
between a sender and intended recipient
Cybersecurity (or security): The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from
unauthorized access or criminal exploitation

D
Database: An organized collection of information or data
Data point: A specific piece of information
H
Hacker: Any person who uses computers to gain access to computer systems,
networks, or data
Hacktivist: A person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA): A U.S. federal law
established to protect patients’ health information
I
Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable
Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who
poses a security risk
Intrusion detection system (IDS): An application that monitors system activity and
alerts on possible intrusions
L

Linux: An open-source operating system
Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems
M
Malware: Software designed to harm devices or networks
N
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework
(CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best
practices to manage cybersecurity risk
Network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer): A tool designed to capture and analyze
data traffic within a network
Network security: The practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure
secure from unauthorized access
O
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP): A non-profit organization
focused on improving software security
Order of volatility: A sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved
from first to last
P
Password attack: An attempt to access password secured devices, systems,
networks, or data
Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information used to infer an individual’s
identity
Phishing: The use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive
data or deploying malicious software

Physical attack: A security incident that affects not only digital but also physical
environments where the incident is deployed
Physical social engineering: An attack in which a threat actor impersonates an
employee, customer, or vendor to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location
Privacy protection: The act of safeguarding personal information from unauthorized
use
Programming: A process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a
computer to execute tasks
Protected health information (PHI): Information that relates to the past, present, or
future physical or mental health or condition of an individual
Protecting and preserving evidence: The process of properly working with fragile
and volatile digital evidence
S
Security architecture: A type of security design composed of multiple components,
such as tools and processes, that are used to protect an organization from risks and
external threats
Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks
Security ethics: Guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security
professional
Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and
threats to data and privacy
Security governance: Practices that help support, define, and direct security efforts
of an organization
Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects
and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization
Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and
data and react to change

Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls
under stricter handling guidelines
Social engineering: A manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain
private information, access, or valuables
Social media phishing: A type of attack where a threat actor collects detailed
information about their target on social media sites before initiating the attack
Spear phishing: A malicious email attack targeting a specific user or group of users,
appearing to originate from a trusted source
SQL (Structured Query Language): A programming language used to create, interact
with, and request information from a database
Supply-chain attack: An attack that targets systems, applications, hardware, and/or
software to locate a vulnerability where malware can be deployed
T
Technical skills: Skills that require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and
policies
Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets
Threat actor: Any person or group who presents a security risk
Transferable skills: Skills from other areas that can apply to different careers
U
USB baiting: An attack in which a threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick
for an employee to find and install to unknowingly infect a network
V
Virus: refer to “computer virus”
Vishing: The exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive
information or to impersonate a known source

W
Watering hole attack: A type of attack when a threat actor compromises a website
frequently visited by a specific group of users
